428. Gratitude To Lord Hanumanji

"Jai HARIVAYUGURUBHYONAMAH"

My sincere Prayers, Gratitude and Remembrance to the Lotus Feet of the Lord.

Dearest Lord, Please remember me and Awaken Your name in the form of constant remembrance of Sri Ramji and Hanumanji.

Always keep me in Satsang of your devotees.

Almighty My LORD,

Thanks for everything

429. Gratitude towards Lord Hanuman

Dear readers, First of all I would like to express my gratitude and feeling blessed to be given this opportunity in providing my thoughts and queries to Lord Hanuman. I am a sincere devotee of lord Hanuman ever since my birth. I always have this belief that he is bonded to my soul and whatever challenges and hardship I am experiencing is HIS test to make me more confident. OM JEY SRI HANUMAN, the only mantra I have been telling before starting my prayers. Right now, I have completed my studies in engineering and looking forward for job related to my field of study. I have applied to most of the companies and it's been almost 4 months there is no call for interview. And I am getting news that few companies are not even taking in newcomers. I been through disheartened period, yet I still believe HE is saving the best one for me . Whatever situation and challenges I am put into, I am seeking Lord Hanuman blessings. I wish this would reach all devotees and I pray everyone would be blessed too. Lets be strong to face our hardship. Take care all. Jey Sri Hanuman.

430. Great dilemma whether mother who gave birth is correct or husband with whom I decided to spend life with

My husband has a very bad temper that always puts me and my people in great sorrow and shame. I have a fear that his anger and adamant nature may someday end our relation. We are from different cultures and initially my mother was not happy with the proposal. But my father and in laws supported the alliance. Eventually my mother also accepted the relation. Recently my younger sister got married within our culture. I and my husband generously supported the marriage financialy. But my mother tried to create misunderstanding about my in laws in the minds of her relatives. My husband also feels deep inside that the younger son in law will be accepted more by my parents. There has been a huge misunderstanding which I am not able to resolve.
Lord Hanuman please give me the brahma gyan to understand prabhu's leela.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you resolve this, something else will come up. This is part of human life. Brahma Gnan enables you to rise these human emotions so that you feel these emotions as an observer and not as a subject of these emotions. Start observing people and human emotions. Observe them like you observe waves of an ocean while you sit on a beach.

Blessings

431. Great Experience.

Lord hanuman is the very powerful ideal in whole world.

Har insan ka sukh dukh me sath dete or har manokamna puran b karte h.

humne is bat ko bhut bar dekha or smjha h.

JAI BAJRANG BALI.

JAI SHREE RAM.

432. Great experience

Lord hanuman has always been a part in our life.he continues to be so now also.he blesses us every now and then.my son and son in law are true devotees of Sri anjaneya.

433. Great peace of mind...........!!

Jai Hanuman , कालतंतु कारेचरन्ति एनर मरिष्णु , निर्मुक्तेर कालेत्वम अमरिष्णु jai Hanumaaaaannn!!!!!

434. The greatest friend

There have been many instances in my life where I was supposed to carried away to the other world, but I am thankfully alive. I am not even 21 years old and have almost survived 5 or 6 accidents which could have been fatal. As a person who believes in GOD with my life, thanking him is not even too close to say. I usually call the male GOD as THANDE and the female one as THAAYI as they are my parents. They have fostered me and they have taken care of me in such a way that I can distinguish myself from the others. When the modern youth like to party hard, and act in the so called modern way, I like to read about Hinduism and atleast try to be a moral and an ethical person to say the least. My only wish at the end of the day is to be a good human being and a good devotee. I would like my THANDE and THAAYI to be proud of me and tell that he is my son. And I shall work for that.
Anjenaya Swamy, I am sure you won't leave my hand. I am sure you know my devotion to you. I shall always be like you wanted me to be. Thank you for everything.

435. Guidance

Raam Raamay namah.
Om Hari Markat Markataaya Namah.

My Lord,

Please guide me when will I get my eternal Guru who will guide me through the path to liberation (If I've already met with him/her, why he/she is not paying any heed to my sufferings ?). Also, please guide me through the way to find and reach the holy feet of my mother (Ofcourse, U know well. what & whom I'm talking about). Can I join your benign holy presence to spend my remaining life in your holy feet leaving behind my wordly name and relations ? Please tell me the process for the same.

Shree Seeta Raamay Namah.

Soul Mukesh.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Do not seek a Guru. Seek the supreme truth. An appropriate Guru shall automatically walk in your life in some form or formless. If you seek Guru, you are likely to get a wrong one.

Blessings

436. GURU

CONTINUED FROM #32810
JAI SRI RAM
Thank you for reply
i have one big query that what is the actual process to look upon a Guru
all this life we are educated through a guru as a mother ,teacher ,father then waht is the real method to look for a Guru. i already trust on hanumanji then what is making him as Guru
and i am a married woman and a mother can i make Hanumanji as a Guru will he accept a woman woman as his shishya . People say that married one should not worship more hanumanji . is that true please reply
when all his leela only then why given birth to us what is right way to live life .. i am very suffocating with these question is the bible say about creator is right? are we ruled by davil nowadays . whom should i believe tell me i am hindu finding answers for my questions what the purpose of god to create this leela why it is necessary it may take time to get answer by myself please help me to find it i am feeling helpless and confused

jai hanumanji

Setu Speaks: 
Compare these two scenarios:

(1) Somebody tells you, "You are a good person"

(2) You yourself feel, "I am a good person"

The same information coming from two sources. When it comes from outside, it touches your mind and ego. Just imagine how would you feel when somebody else tell you that you are a good person. Your mind will react according to the image it has about the person who is saying so. Your mind will react according to the ego you have built about yourself. (Ego means sense of "I". It is not a bad thing.)

Now imagine how you would feel when you yourself feel that you are a good person. The information you receive from yourself touches your soul. You do not react to that information. You just feel it.

Now, in simple words, an information coming from Guru is received by the disciple as if the information is coming of his/her soul itself. Not from outside.

Your Guru becomes your soul.

Now , another question. See, the relationship between Guru and disciple is not at the level of body and mind. It is at the level of soul. "Men", "Women" etc are classifications based on body structure and feelings of mind. At the level of soul, we are same. Soul is not male or female, married or unmarried. Soul is Soul.

Blessings

437. GURU

Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare
Hare Ram Hare Ram Ram Ram Hare Hare
MahaPrabhu Sri Ram Ke Param Priya Bhakt evam Sevak Mahaveer Hanuman ke Sri Charan Kamal mein Koti Koti Pranam.

Dear Master,

In my heart I have accepted Sri Hanuman as my Guru.
I will also tie a red thread around by wrist as a sign that Sri Hanumanji is my Guru.
Please disclose the secret mantra that Sri Hanumanji have given so that I can also repeat and have sakshat darshan of the Lord.

I have full faith that Sri Hanumanji will bring me to a level where according to my karma will have sakshat darshan of Sri Hanumanji.

Namaste

438. Guru Dikhsa

Jay Hanuman ji, Jay Anjani mai.

I am very much engaged in the worldy matter to fullfull my duties towards my family (wife & one child) but i want sanyas from this life and devoted my rest life in hanuman devotion.

I am very much devotte of Maa Kali alongwith Hanuman Ji and i want to worship them whole heartidly but am facing several issues . I dont know any mantra & i always call hanuman ji & maa kali for darshan but they didnt came yet. I didnt get any guru dikha & i need guru diskha for a proper mantra to call maa kali & hanuman ji.

Please ask hanuman ji to help me for giving darshan of maa kali & himself to me and also give guru diksha to me.

I am crying daily for a darshan of Hanuman ji & Maa Kali. Please help , please help for darshan of hanuman ji & maa kali.

Pls help hanuman ji .

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

First become eligible to get the Mantra. Don't take family as a hurdle. If you have got family responsibilities, fulfill them. Practice detachment while fulfilling family responsibilities. That would be a great Sadhana.

Blessings

439. guru ji se pararthna..

Me 2 Sal pahle bahut hatas v niras Ho Gaya tha...parntu mene jab se sree hanuman ji Ki bhakti sru Ki h mera Kalyan hi Kalyan h...me hanuman ji ko apna guru banaya h...me sree hanuman ji mere guru dev se yahi prarthana Karta Hu Ki hamesha mere v mere pariwar par kripa banaye rakhe v mera v sampurn visva ka Marg darasan kare..v mujhe bhi baraham gyan lene layak bana kar mujhe bhi Vo Divya barahm dayan de v mera har manirath purn kare....mere gurudev hamesha mujhe apne charno me sathan deve aisi mete guru se meri pararthna h....

440. GURU,LORD & GOD HANUMAN JI - Mera Mata & Piita se shuru hoai Vaansh Vraksh Par BAGWAN & PRABHU kai Bhakti Prasad kee saidaiv vaarsha kartai raihai, aur saidaiv AAP SABHI GODS & GODDESSES Kee Sabhi Prakaar Ki Kirpa Drashti baani Raaihai

Oh, Our GURU , LORD & GOD In particular HANUMAN JI- We all love YOU and give Us The Good Minds, Hearts and Souls that We shall continue to do so, till YOU & we are there in this Universe and Beyond.
Take all of us in YOUR FEET services.
We would be highly Obliged.
Jai Shri Ram

441. Guruvyur temple and dwarika

Jai Shri RAM,
Namaskarm,

1) as you discussed in the 9th chapter the whole granthas And other old literature corrupted or mixed, or changed

Kindly guide us from where we will get original grathas.

2) please explain truth of lord Guruvyur Appan temple,thrishur,Kerala. It's idol and dwarika, Gujarat.

3) is this Muslims or Muslim religion are asuras..

4) we get obstruction for doing good deed or good devotional work by...
My father's second wife,,

She always quarelled,demanding non veg foods,fighting, scoulding my father
She cooks food without bathing..

She cooks non veg foods in the evening time when me and my father is praying and Sandya deepam
She is greedy.

5) how we see naked eye to Shri Hanumanji.

6) I have studied MSc Agri. But presently I don't have any job,and I did not get married.
Economic conditions going worst..

Please guide me..

Where presently hanumanji staying..
And many more questions..

Jai Shri RAM..
Jai Hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Original Grathans are not available. The oldest copies of these texts which are available in this world are also corrupted. For supreme knowledge, Lord Hanuman's recent Leelas are the only source of which 10 chapters have been deciphered. More are being deciphered.

We have not come across any content related to the temple mentioned by you. If we get any content in Lord Hanuman's Leelas, we shall publish it.

Asurrahs are in everyone in this time of Kaliyuga. No human being is free from influence of Asurrahs. They have captured body-mind of almost all human beings. Some are fully captured by Asurrahs while some still have control on their body and mind. It has nothing to do with any religion.

Your step mother's body and mind are fully captured by Asurrahs. The only way to loose grip of Asurrahs is to show her that you are not affected by her behavior. If you show that you are getting affected and irritated by her behavior, the Asurrahs will more intensely show their colors. Just show them that you are not affected by whatever she is doing.

To have Sakshat Darshan of Lord Hanuman, you need to purify your soul. Supreme knowledge is the only way of purifying the soul.

It seems the environment at home is affecting your progress. Do not waste your energy in trying to change your step mother or anyone else. Just concentrate on your life. You will get success as there is no other obstacle.

Blessings

442. gyan

jab se mai es gyan ko prapt kiya hu meri dimag se bahut sare sawalo or bhrantiyo ka nash ho gaya hai .es gyan ke samne mujhe sab kuchh jhuta lag raha hai.aap dhany hai bajrangbali aap jaisa bhakt koe nahi hai sansar me jai shri ram.

443. A Halo encircling the sun

Lord Hanuman,
Today I experienced an unique phenomena. .... at around 11-11:30 am. ..I was morally very down and missing my maa when I could spot a beautiful halo encircling the sun....came to know from Google that it is also called 22 degree halo.
Please let me know whether there is any divine meaning associated with this event....since lot many scientific explanations are available in sites....actual divine relationship can be explained by you only....pls explain the divine meaning of such wonderful natural phenomena
I wouldn't have experienced such phenomena unless my mother's sister had called us to experience the same...pls do bless her.
I am sending the photographs vide email.
Will be eagerly waiting for the reply Lord

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

All the powers of the universe are saying to you, "Embrace the Change."

Blessings

444. Hamare Hanuman

Main bahut hi khush hu ye sb pad kr or aj main poore vishwash se kh skta hu ke bhagwan aj bhi hamare aaas paas hai....or har waqt hme dekh rhe hai..
Or question aapse hai ki dharm granthon main likha hai ki jo hota hai accha hota hai..or jo beet gya ab usse bhi accha ho in sbdon main kitni sacchai hai...or ...
Ek question ye bhi hai ke aapne bola ki hmsbki aatma shudh nhi hai to main punchna chaunga ki hm aisa kya kr skte hai jisse bhagwan hme apne layak smjhe or hm bhi bhagwan se mil ske or hme iss moh maya se mukti mil sake or hm bhagwan ke charon main ja sake..
Aapke answer ka intzaar rhega......!

Setu Speaks: 
क्या आपने अपने जीवन में अनुभव नहीं किया है कि जो होता है अच्छे के लिए होता है ? आपका प्रश्न इस सन्दर्भ में क्या है कृपा विस्तार से अपनी अगली पोस्ट में लिखें।
आपका यह जीवन आपके जन्म से शुरू हुआ है लेकिन आपकी आत्मा हज़ारों वर्षों से यही पर विभिन्न जन्म ले रही है। अशुद्धियाँ जन्मों जन्मों से इकट्ठी हो रही हैं। एक समय था जब हर आत्मा शुद्ध रूप में दैवीय देह में थी। उसके बाद ह्रास शुरू हुआ। आत्म ज्ञान से इन अशुद्धियों का नाश होता हैं। श्री हनुमान जी को अपना गुरु मानिए। उनके द्वारा कहे गए शब्दों और लीलाओं को पढ़िए। वे आपका भी मोक्ष का मार्ग प्रशस्त करेंगे।
मंगल कामनाएं।

445. Hamesha kripalu

When I was pregnant first time I visited hanuman mandir every evening... I am blessed with healthy and very well behaved and intelligent boy...I read ramayna then and I found so many qualities of Lord ram in my son.. I am pregnant second time and I wish to have a baby girl this time... May hanuman ji bless me this time too...

446. hamesha meri problem solve ki hai

ek baar nahi kitni baar mere eeshth hanuman ji ne sirf yaad karne bhar se meri essi mushkilen hal ki hain jinka koi solution nahi tha. log agar chamatkaar ko namaskaar karte hain to hanuman ji se sache man se keh kar to dekhen khud namaskar karenge.

447. Hanuma experience

Dear ALL,

This was an experience I had few years back. May be 4 years has been passed since then. It was a silent afternoon and I was alone at home reading some book about meditation/philosophy. I did not realize when I fell asleep but I clearly remember feeling as if I am pulled into darkness and I do not have any power to get out of it. The only thing I do was chant Hanuman's name asking to help me out. This is when a miracle happened!

I saw a shadow of Hanuman (With one arm in Blessing pose and holding Gadhe in his left hand). The darkness around me vanished instantly and I felt like someone telling me "I am with you".

I do not know how to express this feeling but that is the day I realized my prayers are heard by my beloved Hanuma and he came in my rescue.

Just wanted to share this with you all.

Hope someone can give a better, deeper explanation of my experience.
Thank you - Jai Bajarang Bali!

448. hanumaan ji se prashan

agar hanumaan ji sach mein isi dunia mein hai toh woh baaki dunia waalo ko kyu nahi milte yaa dikhayi kyu nahi detey kya hum sab unke bachey yaa unka parivaar nahi hai kya hum sab bhi unke sachey bhakt nahi hai hum sab bhi toh hanumaan ji se pyaar karte hai aur unki pooja karte hai kya woh hame kabhi darshan dengey

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

वे कही नहीं गए हैं , कलियुग के मनुष्य चेतना के नीचले स्तर पर चले गए हैं | ब्रह्मा ज्ञान द्वारा अपनी चेतना का स्तर उठाइए , वे आपको साक्षात् मिलेंगे | उनको अपने स्तर पर लाने की इच्छा रखने की बजाए , आप आत्मा के स्तर की और प्रस्थान कीजिए जहाँ हनुमान जी विद्यमान हैं |

|| राम ||

449. Hanuman

A few years ago, One day i was going to a shop to buy a file.at that shop shop i had seen Vagwat Gita published by geeta press and i bought a copy..with that copy the shopkeeper gave me a copy of hanuman chalisa.the surprising fact is that after a monyh later an astrologer also advised me to worship lord hanuman..till date i regularly worship Sankatmochan Hanuman everyday..
I think it is Mahaveer who saves me from every bad situatn of my life..one can easily get the fruits of Hari bhakti through the worship of param Ram vakt Hanuman..
He anjanisut, vayuputra, laksman prandata, sankatmochan, mahaveer, maharudra, mahaprovu Hanuman kripa korke mujhe is dukh se bahar nikaliye..

450. hanuman

meine 6va adhyay padha. muze padhate wakt aeisa mehsus hua ki kuch mere andar se nikala. thodha mein halka mehsus kar rahi hu. muze aur ek baat mesus karani thi. ki mere janmdin ke din muze aisa mehasus hua ki jaise hanuman ji ne mere sar pe haath rakha. kya muze aap baata sakate ki kya such mein hanuman mere ghar pe aye the.

Setu Speaks: 
जी हाँ , वे आपकी आत्मा के समीप आये थे, आपके घर पर नहीं | आत्मा का कोई space coordinate नहीं होता | या यूँ कहें कि सभी आत्माएं एक ही बिंदु पर होती है | जब आप आत्मा के स्तर पर उठते हैं तब आपको हनुमान जी का सामीप्य अनुभव होता है |

451. hanuman

I know I am no one or not even close to think abt hangman this way, but I am soooo proud of him. He has gained so many wonderful deciples across the globe and seeing the love all of them have for him, makes me feel so happy for him. Hanuman if
given a chance I wish upon the stars n moon that I will be able to at least hear ur bell sound which is tied to ur tail....96

452. Hanuman

I always get lot of energy after reading every Hanuman chapter. I actually wait for them.
My prayers are answered by Hanuman. Thank you Hanuman. My Husband is somewhat confused about his career. Please help him, Give him what he wants.

453. Hanuman

from the last 15yrs I have been a humble devotee of Hanuman ji. .he has graced me with many visions of his..several times I have seen him jumping out of his pic and standing beside my bed..sometimes he is huge with bluish hue &at other times v tiny &all red flying past me..inspired by Him my family constructed e temple dedicated to Him &the temple also hosts an idol of Shiv ji Ganesh ji &shivlingam. ..often I have seen him sitting there a young red monkey &sometimes a v old man...Once after a long holiday when I returned home &entered the temple I heard a loud Jai shrr Ram ..I thought I was hallucinating but this happened again when I entered the temple after after a gap of few days &since then whenever I enter this temple after some gap of time I am greeted with Jai shrr Ram chant...amazing !!! its said that women should not touch hanuman idol but I do all the sevas of his idol &now I know he treats me like his Anjana maa..when I am angry he pacifies me when I am in distress or a painful situation he consoles me..he is my son now..in my meditations he has taken me so deep within connecting me with my soul & awakening so many energy channels paving a path for higher possibilities. ..from the last 6 days I have been doing the 1st line of setu mantra Kaaltantu kaarecharanti,..I didn't know it was so powerful..just few minutes into this mantra &my body starts dissolving &I see myself in a v ancient hanuman temple painted in red & a vv old man sitting in a corner..could be him!!! since I have been doing this mantra I am in a state of intoxication..but now I want to see him in person ..be with him..merge in him...can I visit mathangs

Setu Speaks: 
Blessings.

454. Hanuman- The benevolent

Sai Ram,
Jai Hanuma,
Greetings to all my brothers and sisters. It gives me immense pleasure to write my experience with Lord Hanuman to you. This was in 2012/13. I have a practice of visiting Lord Vinayaka of Kudumale, Kolar dist., Karnataka every year as a thanksgiving when my son graduates to next standard. Place called Mulbagilu, dedicated for Lord Anjaneya is very close by.( Lord Anjaneya is said to be installed by Arjuna here. Here the lord is seen with a sword and not Ghadha.)Therefore we visit him also on our every trip. On the above mentioned year, after visiting Lord Vinayaka, on the way to Anjaneya temple, I discovered Lord Narshimha's temple(it is said Lord Narshimha sat to rest here after he started off from Ahobila). So...it consumed lot of time when we were knowing the Stala purana. I knew I was late to Lord Anjaneya's temple because the temple would close in the afternoon. So I rushed my family immediately to the car. I was down hearted because I knew I was going to miss his darshan. Suddenly a sense of calmness encompassed me. I turned to my husband and said, "listen temple will be closed by now. But Hanuman will see to it that we have his darshan and then depart." Waiting to see how my faith is going to give fruit we headed towards Hanuman's temple.
Here was the twist. As we got close to the temple, I saw a man's back. I was so curious just by looking him from back. He had a matted hair. He wore a shirt and a dhothi which was dirtier than the word dirty. He was drinking tender coconut and all the monkeys had gathered around. He seemed least bothered about the world around him. I felt I should give him some money(it must be noted that this incident happened so fast than my understanding) I stopped the car and called out to that man. He turned to me and lo!!!what should I say about his beauty. I had never seen someone with such radiance on face. It was opposite to the dress what he was wearing. His eyes shined with brilliance. I was curious to see what mark he wore on his forehead. It was just some kumkum smeared across. I stretched out a note of rupees 10 and told him to eat food from that money. He just noded his head and walked away. We were awestruck looking at him, we discussed him till we reached the gate of the temple. On reaching we found the temple was closed as expected. But we had great sense of calmness that lord had kept his promise.
I being an agyani, sinful how and why did he give me darshan. Doubt started to crop in my mind. I thought about it almost every day. If it was really Hanuma why is he not removing the problems in my life. Why am I having so may confusion, stress, helplessness, defeat...
It was three months after this incident, one night I had a dream that I am in a temple of Lord bala Hanuman (bala means child) standing in namaskara mudra. I stood with my family in front of him and were praying. Suddenly I see that idol of the Lord moving. First I see his eyes moving. I am telling my family, "see the murthy has come to life. His eyes are moving. When my family begings to identify it, Lord manifests there in front of us. He said looking at me " Rama Rama Rama Sita Rama Rama Rama, Rama Rama Rama Sita Rama Rama Rama. " and he instructed me to repeat. I did accordingly. When we all chanted what he taught. I saw him, he was dancing in joy. And then...my dream broke. This was my experience which I have shared with you, other than my family. I hope that my experience is not made fun off. Thanks for all the patience you have taken to read.
If you permit me I have a question to ask. Even now at this point of time I am not peaceful. I have gone to see many saints, temples but still I can't find peace and harmony. I keep asking Lord Hanuman, why am i not chanting that mantra that you have taught? What is stopping me from attaining you?????? I am yet to get answer. Dear Setuu, if you are committed to your words please help me? I am not able to achieve tranquility of mind. Though i was so close to him what is the wall separating us?? Why is my Mukhya Prana not running in my Prana??
Waiting for your advice with all trust and love.
Radha.
Sai Ram, Jai Hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The souls who are very close to Lord Hanuman get roller coaster of experiences, because those souls deserve Moksha. In order to assist those souls in their journey towards Moksha, He makes sure that the soul gets opposite experiences frequently. The opposite experiences means, Happiness-Sadness, Darkness-Light, ignorance-knowledge, and so on. A soul gets Moksha when the soul rises above these opposites, and doesn't indulge in any of the opposites. That is what is happening with your soul.

Blessings

455. Hanuman bhakt

Me hanuman ji ka bhakt hu or hr mangal bar unki pooja b krta hu pr me adhiktar ram ji ka nam japta hu. Mujhe ye btaye k kya ye theek h? Me hanuman ji ka bhakt kya mera har samay ram nam japna theek h?

Baise bachpan se hanuman ji ne meri hr murad poori ki h

JAI SHRI RAM
JAI HANUMAN JI

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्मस्वरुप ,

यह पूर्णतया उचित है |

राम ||

456. Hanuman Bhakth

I am a devotee of Lord Hanuman. I love him very much. I think the story of lord hanuman coming to Srilanka is true. I would have liked to see hanumanji before my death. I will pray more sincerely. I wish i can travel to Srilanka to actually see those people who have met hanumanji. I will touch their feet since they have already had a darshan of lord hanuman

457. Hanuman in bus

This happen to my father where he was in the bus had travelling with his friends on the way to Tirichi. On of his friend had indigestion and his stomach started to bloat. A lady in the bus started to meditate so can use spiritual power to neutralise it.Out of sudden my dad who was in the bus he saw he walking across in the bus with orange dhoti. He was shocked where I suppose to be back home not here and the next moment he saw mahaprabhu veera anjaneya swami walking behind me across the bus, stand a while, turn look at my dad, smile and walk away.A big light spark and it seems both of us disappeared. He started to tear in bus and everyone questions him reason he blast into tears and the lady who sit in meditation told him "Sir, I do saw what you saw "and smile..

458. Hanuman Chalisa

Hello,
Hanuman Chalisa had been written at around 16th Century.. Does Mathangs also offer prayers through hanuman chalisa..? Its just written in 16th Century.. so was there any other method before to pray before that to Hanuman ji..? Does Hanuman ji talks about hanuman chalisa and its importance in day to day life..? Please throw some light on Hanuman Chalisa..

Thank you

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Until Treta Yuga, people could see Lord Hanuman in the Ashram of their Gurus, or randomly in mountains (away from mainstream society). There was no need of Mantras. Only a desire to meet Him was enough. In Kaliyuga, humans lost their contact with Lord Hanuman. Guru tradition was still there. Every caste/category of humans had a Guru. Those Gurus used to discover/realize (through Lord Hanuman) Mantras which were applicable only for the caste/category that Guru belonged to. That too disappeared. In the time around 16th century, communities had no Gurus. So Lord Hanuman revealed a general Mantra called Hanuman Chalisa to a sage. Because it was revealed by lord Hanuman Himself, it became famous across various communities.

Now is a very different Time. Now people are too much into visuals, very less into words. Visuals are vehicle of illusions, word is the vehicle of divine. So the word (Hanuman Chalisa) is not effective for people who are too much into visuals. Why?

A devotee in 16th/17th/18th/19th century could chant Hanuman Chalisa and visualize Lord Hanuman's Leelas as per his own vision. So even though Hanuman Chalisa was only general Mantra, each devotee had a unique manifestation from this Mantra.

Now when you chant Hanuman Chalisa, your mind visualizes scenes from various TV serials/movies related to Lord Hanuman. Those TV series/movies are not created by any sage. They are created by ordinary film makers. So your visualization of Lord Hanuman's feats is adulterated by visualization of a single person (director/writer of movie).

Perhaps, that is the reason Lord Hanuman has made His Mathang Leelas public. May be through the words being published through Setuu, people can connect better with Lord Hanuman. These words are so powerful that visuals of TV serials don't fit in mind of reader. So the reader visualizes a unique visual of Lord Hanuman. Probably this is the Time in Kaliyuga where combination of Mantras and Supreme Knowledge is necessary to connect with Him.

As far as Mathangs are concerned, they have their own Mantra of 36 lines. They do not chant Hanuman Chalisa. We had published 3 lines of this Mantra but after that Lord Hanuman did not give permission to publish more lines. Either people misused these lines or they pronounced them wrongly. Lord Hanuman will give permission to publish these 36 lines if they are meant to be for all devotees in general. Let us wait.

Blessings

459. Hanuman Chalisa ka Chamatakar ....

24 year ki thi tab mai ne Hanuman Chalisa ka har din me 40 bar har roj pathan kiya , aisa 40 dino tak pathan aur pooja ki aur meri sari mano kamana puri hui. aur sankat kal me unko kabhi bhi yad karo wo kisi na kisi rup me aakar madat karate hai. meri mother-in-law ne muze 4 bar jan se mar ne koshish ki lekin wo kabhi safal nahi ho pai. 5 wi bar unoh ne koshish ki tab unake jan par hadasa ho gya tha. tab wo bhot darr gai thi, aur muze puchahne lagi tu kis bhagawan ki puja path karati hai? 1 week tak wo sirf muze dekh ti rah gai. iske bad unoh ne kabhi aesi harakat nahi ki. aur mere pati se juda nahi kar pai. shata-shata-shata koti dhanyawad Hanumanji...... sabhi bhakato ke uapar Hanumanji ki krupa-drushati rahe.

460. hanuman chalisa shakti

helped me in every needed time of my life.

461. Hanuman Darshan

Hi

We from the mortal world, we always have many endless desires in life. why we always have problems in life, is it because of the past life karma.

Once with his eyes we want to see Hanuman. want to end all this problems in life. Please ask this question to Mathangas for the Hanuman Dhrashan.

Regards
Ashok

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you try to find answer to this question yourself, it will help you come out of all problems of life. Instead of seeking a ready made answer, find your own answer. It will help your soul in coming back to path of Moksha where you will have Darshan of Lord Hanuman.

Blessings

462. hanuman darshan

mein jab bhi hanumanji ka adhyay padhati hu. muze bahot achha lagata mein. mein jab bhi apani aankhe band karati hu tab muze hanuman ji ke darshan hote hein. ab to meine hanuman chalisa padhna bhi chalu kiya hein. muze aise bar bar lagata hein hanuman meri baate sunate hein.mere man ki har baat woh jaanate hein. raat ko mein so ti hu to muze unke darshan hamesha hote hein.gehri nind mein hoti hu to muze dikhta hei ki samane kai sari building hein aur ek building ke baju se hanuman ji ko mein dekhti hu. mano jaise unki nazar muz per hein. muze bahot achha lagata hein. aisa kai bar mere saath hua hei.aaj unki vajah se mein apne life kaffi behater mehsus kar rahi hu.

463. hanuman darshan

meine setu ka 8 va adhyay padha, muze bahut halka mehsus hua. muze setu ke sabhi adyay achhe lagate hein. iname muze 8va adyay bahut pasand aaya. mein samaz gayi ki makardvaz hanuman ji ka putra nahi tha. mein jab bhi setuu ka adhyay padhti hu apne aap ko bahot halka mesus karati hu.aur muze kai bar band aankhonse hanuman ji ke darshan bhi hui. ab mein unke khuli aankhon se darshan karana chahti hu. aap jab ye mera post padhe to aap hanuman ji se jarurr prarthana kare ki mere mann mein koi paap na aaye. aur burai muze kabhi chhu na sake.

464. hanuman darshan ke liye aur kitni pratiksha karni hai....

Aap sabhi ko naman. aap sabhi sey yeh vinamra prarthana hai ki yathasheegra hanuman sakshat darshan ke liye nirdharit unn 36 pankhtiyon ko sheeghra athi sheeghra pradan kari jaye.......

aapke aabhari
soul( vyoam namah dheham)

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्म स्वरुप , अकेले मंत्र का कोई लाभ नहीं जब तक उसका अर्थ न समझा जाये और अर्थ हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के अध्यायों में निहित हैं | जैसे जैसे अध्यायों को समझकर हम प्रकाशित करेंगे वैसे वैसे हनुमान जी की अनुमति से वे पंक्तियाँ भी प्रकाशित करेंगे | || राम ||


465. HANUMAN G KO CHARAN SPARSH

ME HAMESH SE HI HANUMAN G KI POOJA KARTA RAHA HU AUR UN PAR ATOOTH VISHWAS HE. JAB BHI MUJHE KOI SANKAT GHER LETA HE MUJHE SIRF HANUMAN G HI YAAD AATE HE. KYONKI UNKE SIVA JALDI SE SANKAT KAATNE WALA KOI NHI HE. YE CHIRANJIVI HE ISLIYE APNE BHAKTO KI PUKAR JALDI SUNTE HE YE MERI KHUD KA ANUBHAV HE. ME HAR MANGALWAR KO MANDIR JAATA HU AUR MUJHE BAHUT SHANTI MILTI HE. MUJH PAR KUCH SAMAY SE MERE APNE HI TANTRA KAR RAHE HE MUJHE MARNE KE LIYE. MERE PAS HANUMAN G KE SIVA KOI NHI HE. ISLIYE ME UNKI POOJA ARCHANA KAR RAHA HU AUR UNKE MANTRO KA JAAP BHI KAR RAHA HU.
MUJHE UNPAR VISHWAS HE KI VO MUJHE JAROOR BACHA LENGE.

466. hanuman is great

first iam thank ful to your site because day by day there is a vast change in humans
i have complete faith on hanuman , now ima in the cadre of a superintendent due to his blessings as in first chapter i read i am in illusion about this dirty world means kama krodha madam , my ambition is to chant sundara kanda like a song every day but iam not doing it but from to day i will start

467. Hanuman Heals

Whenever I have felt anxious about my health I come across Chapters of Setuu orgn. After reading the chapter I get a blessing from Lord Vishnu through Lord Hanuman

468. Hanuman - the immorta lord

i have read hanuman chalisa 108 ti,es for several times to fulfill my wishes and they actually get fulfilled within 15 days of reading hanuman chalisa.

is this true that reading hanuman chalisa 108 times fulfills my wishes and does hanumanji listens to my prayers???

hanuman is an avatar of shivji???

and last one :- The last avatra of vishnu will take birth at which place and who would be his mother??

Setu Speaks: 
Lord Hanuman works to fulfill all the wishes which reach Him. But wishes reach Him only when a devotee rises above body-mind and realizes his/her soul. In your case, you rise above body-mind by chanting Hanuman Chalisa.

Lord Shiva has many forms but He has no avatar.

Mystery of Lord Kalki is yet to be unraveled. It is still not known where He will take birth. But we will know it soon.

Blessings

469. Hanuman the Immortal soul(Pancha Mukhi Hanuman)

Seetu:

This chapter has tremendous amount of knowledge about spiritual and deep knowledge. Lord Hanuman has express the true knowlodge about soul, were are not body or mind nor anything we are completely soul. Soul can be travel any space and time without any trouble. Whoever will read this all chapter will feel the presence of hanuman and will have his darshan.

470. Hanuman Jauyanti.2-3rd April.

On the night between 2 & 3rd
April, I had a very beautiful experience, for more than an hour. However I cannot describe it in words and I hope this comes again.

I seem to be flying less of late. I don't know why.

I repeat Hanuman Chalisa 4 x 11 times a day. Sometimes I am repeating it in my dream. And sometimes I am repeating it voiceless in my mind.

I haven't started the mantra chanting as yet and don't know if I should do it voiced or unvoiced or both.

I am very grateful to Hanuman for the progress I have been making from so many problems.

My blood type is Rhesus B negative which is very rare and it seems that it is not terrestrial. What are my extra-terrestrial connections, because I see my home is in another planet and I don't belong to this world.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
This Mantra are to be recited in the state of transcendence. In that state, time and space lose their meaning. In that state, only a soul speaks to Lord directly. The body and other parameters of physical world have no meaning.

Blessings

471. hanuman jee bhakti

Mujhae, meri behan anju, meri ma aur mera friend ram ko hanuman jee ka kripa huwa hae hum apnae jiwan Mae hanumanjee ka jeewan var bhakti karna chahatae hai hanuman jee hamae kripa karae aur hamae aasirwad dae aur hamara dukh dard mitayae aur hamae sukh dae aur hamara aatma sudh kardae aur buraiya sae bachayae aur hamara iccha pura karae aur hamae sadbuddi dae aur sadaiba gyan ki vandar pradan karae.Hae hanuman jee humae harek janm mae aapka bhakti karnae ka awasar pradan karae aur hamae moksh pradan karae............hanuman jee aap humae sapnae mae darsan dae..........hum par kripa karae hanuman jee.....hum aapkae kripa prasad kae Liyae apnae jholi failayaetae hai humae kripa karae......jai shree ram........jai siyaram.........jai hanumanjee.............

472. hanuman jee k prati sharda bhav

Main pehle mansahari tha mutton mujhe bahut acha lagta tha lekin jab se prabhu hanuman jee k sharan main gaya tab se ab mutton khane man nahi karta jeevan k bhaut sari rahin aasan se hoti chali gayi
Jai sri ram jai hanuman

473. hanuman ji

apke dwara kiya gya post mene bhut dhyan se pda or muje bhut pasnd bh aaya.... meri bh icha h ki me bh hanuman ji se milu, me bh unhe dekhna chahta hu. mere ghr ke samne bh ek hanuman ji ka mandir h... ar sath hi sath is mandir me unke bete makrdhvj bh virajit h mene apni life me kbh esa koi hanuman ji ka mandir nh dekha jisme unke bete makrdhvj bh unke sath virajit ho... muje sapne me ek bar hanuman ji ka aabhas hua tha pr koshish krne ke bad bh me unhe apne sapne me dekh nh paya tha.. to islye meri bh icha h ki me hanuman ji ke darshn ek bar jarur kru

474. hanuman ji

Today I got my happiness all because of hanuman Ji.....my wish is to see hanumanji in reality......hanumanji please never let me leave alone......ap mere sab kuch ho ....Bhaiya papa mummy guru best frnd everything.....please mere mummy papa Jo bi wish maangte hai unhe pura kareyega hanumanji.....n ap kaisr hai...meri saari khushiya apko mummy papa ko mil jaye....jai agree ram jai hanumanji ki

475. Hanuman ji

Mera hanuman ji aapse yai prashan hai ki aap humse rushat toh nahi hai prabhu jai bajrangbali

Setu Speaks: 
बिलकुल नहीं |

||राम||

476. hanuman ji

.ek bar hanuman jaynti ke din me aur meri behan gallery me baithe the, hamara ghar 3rd floor pe hai, tabhi achank tej roshni aiii esiliye hum dono ne baher dekha to God hanuman jo hamaree samane thee,hath me gada bhi thi, lol mitti bhii udd rhiii thi aur hme unka Darshan Ho gaya,,, us din se me hanuman ji ki bhakti karne lagi.
Par mujhe ek bat nhi samjh aiii keep mene usase pehle kbhi bhi unki bhakti nhiii ki. Fir unhone mujhe Darshan kyuuu die...

Setu Speaks: 
इस जन्म में नहीं की , पिछले जन्म में की थी भक्ति |

||राम||

477. Hanuman ji changed my life

When i was in kaghaznagar i did fill when i was restarted to praye hanuman ji & fasting on every tuesday.my life was totaly being changed.because at that time what i was wishing i got that .at that time i was a security guard.now i am a despatch excutive in chennai.so its all about hanuman ji ki kripa.

478. hanuman ji give me ur blessings

in this story i have learn that if we r not good enough to see u then how can we see hanuman just tell me some thing that make me to darshan hanuman gi its my wish to see u if i have done any mistakes just forgive me and just teach me some gnanam we r in kaliyugam and we dont know how relations are and dont even know how to pray for god

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Many devotees have written to us that they got Darshan of Lord Hanuman after reading first chapter. It depends on the impurities which are putting veil on your soul. It may take 1 chapter or 10 chapters to remove those impurities. Make Lord Hanuman your Guru. You will soon have His Darshan.

Blessings

479. hanuman ji give me ur blessings

From past many years i have done lots of mistakes knowingly or unknowingly, just teach me what mistakes i have done and i dont gonna repeat them again, my mother knee is paining her a lot, i love my mother please cure her and make me happy, i am in search of ur blessings hanuman ji just come in my dream and bless me, give me a new job which will be a turning point of my life

480. Hanuman ji helps

Kai baar mere pass pese nahi the khane tak ke mene eyes close ki aur bola babba(hanuman ji) please mujhe pese dila do kahi se main kuch kha sakun
Kuch der baad mere pass mere account main pese aa Gaye the. Jisko mere pese dene the uane daal diye the.

481. Hanuman ji jaanam

Jai shree ram....
meri alap bhuddhi abhi tak kisi ek mat ko sahi se nhi maan rahi hai ki hanuma ji ka janma kaise hui?????/ jaise ko kahata hai hamuman ji ka janma shiv ji ke virye ko anjani ko kano me dalne se hui to,, koi kahata hai anjani mata ne shiv ji ki tapasaya karne se unko vardaan rup me mile.... koi kahata hai ki hanuman ji ke janamte hi unki mata ne unko chhod diya tha aur bhukh lagane par hanuman ji ne surye dev ko nigal liya tha......
koi aap log mujhe hanuman ji ke Janma ki sahi ghatana ke bare me vistar se bata sakate hai..... ki hanuman ji ka janm kis parkar aur kaha hua???
thanks to a'lot of setu asia & Matang....
Jai shree Ram.....

Setu Speaks: 
महोदय,
यह एक लम्बी घटना है | आगे आने वाले अध्यायों में इसका जिक्र आएगा | कृपा आगे आने वाले अध्याय पढ़ें |

राम ||

482. hanuman ji k baare m meri raay

M bhagwan ko maanta tha ,manta hu
Mgr jo pehle waala maan na tha
Usme ras ki kmi thi
Bhagwan kaa name lene pr jo aanand milta hai vo heen tha
Qki m bs itna smjhta tha ki bhagwan hai kuj b maango kbi toh milega
Mgr m anjaan tha is baat se ki
Agr bhagwan ji ne apni shktio ka hi use krna hota toh sita maata ko usi time le aate jb pta lgaane gye the
Mgr bhagwan ji ne purusharth kia
Ek bhagwan hote hue b purusharth kia
Aur apne bhagto ki madad krne k liye kya kr dete hain vo mene aapki site se pda
Tb mujme ye baat jaagi ki bhagwan ji agr purusharth krte hain toh m toh ek insaan hu
M ku naa kru
Me pehle pdta ni tha dhang se
Ab purusharth kr rha hu
Aur ab baat krta hu
Vishnu ji ki
Hm har time peso k piche bhagte hain
Aur khud peso ya yu kahu sobhagya ki devi maa lakshmi jinke per dbaati hain vo svym khud bhagwan vishnu hain
Aur unhi bhagwan ne gau mata ki sewa krne k liye gwaale k roop m krishan avtaar lia
Ab khud ishwar jinki sewa krte hain
Hm insaano ka b frz bnta hai
Ki hm b unki sewa kre
Aur m ab gau sewa kr rha hu
Aur muje aanand ki prapti ho rhi hai

483. hanuman ji ka bhakt

me ek hindu hun aur mujhe hanuman ji ke uppar pura biwass he aur me ye bhi janta tha ki wo amar he aur aaj iska sabut bhi mil gaya mujhe bahut khusi hui...........

jai shree ram
jai hanuman

484. hanuman ji ke parti merae man ka virat hona

He mahanubhav, pichle kuch salo me mera hanuman ji ke prati agadi saradha bhav man me tha unki chali dekhne matra se man bhakti bhav me doob jata tha par kuch salo idhar man me bada uthal puthal macha hua hai na hanuman man lagta hai na kisi dharmikkand me man bare bare khayal at ate hai sadi ho gai hai par aulad na hone se man anant hai kripa kar ke matangi se meri pratha na kar dijiye ki aisa ku ho raha hai mere kast hanuman ji kab karenge

485. Hanuman ji ki aseem kripa prapti

Pyare hanuman ji ,
Aapko koti koti pranam , hey prabhu jeevan me aapse maangane ki to kai ichhaaen hai jo sansarik hai par kabhi kabhi lagta hai ki itne bade aur mahaan prabhu se kya magna . Aap to sarv shaktimaan aur sarv gyata hai. Par mandiro me aap se maang bhi leta hun kyunki aakhir ek sansari hun aur ichhaaen kai hoti hai jaise pragati ki sansarik wali, aur samasyaon ka samadhan wali aadi . Prabhu kai prashno ke haal nahi milte to yah sochkar khud ko aaswashan de deta hun ki abhi jawab milna naseeb me sahi nahi hoga. So shant ho jata hun. Hey prabhu mai apne jeewan me safal nahi hun materialistic life me yani sthool life me. Par apni tarif nahi kar raha hun is kathan se ki pooja bahut karta hun aur nitya ek urja mehsoos karta hun apne sharir me jo ab bhi mehsoos ho rahi hai. Aur yeh urja sarv pratham kuch saal pehle tab mehsoos hui thi jab 7 baar roj hanuman chalisa padta tha kariban saal bhar tak. Fir sapshati diksha li to usme karte karte aur bad gayi urja. Aur jo bhi puja karta hun to wah feel hoti hai. Iska matlab divinity yani ishwariya divyata to aa gayi hai mujh me par chuki safal nahi hun stool life me to pareshani hoti hai. Aap par vishwas to hai ki yeh bhi pareshani aur kai mujse aur pariwar ki pareshaniyan dut hongi par jald ho yeh chahta hun. Aur sabse jyada safal hone ke baad is adyatm me khub badna chata hun ishwar ko aapko prapt karne ki lalsa hai. Hey prabhu hamara do plot hai jo lafde me phase hai jo indore me hai aap kripa kar unhe free karwa de to kuch paiso ki pareshani khatm ho ghar ki. Aur yeh to sansarik ichha hai khas to prabhu Aapki bhakti bade aur aapke aur ram ji prabhu ke darshano ka saubhagya prapt ho aise anant kripa jald se jald kare. Hey prabhu mujhe aisa lagta hai ki pichle janam me mai ek parrot tha jo ki kuch kuch yaad hai mujhe aur yah manushya janam uske baad mila hai shayad pehla hi hai. Is baat se kuch exp. Ka lena nahi hai bad aapko batani thi.
Kripa kare pyare prabhuji
Aapka chota sa bhakt
Vikram

486. Hanuman ji ki bhagti

Jai Sri Ram

Mera naam Virender hai.

Mein hanuman ji ki kirpa prapt karna chahta hu. iskeliye kya karu. unke kis swaroop ka dhyan karu?

hanuman ji Hindu dhatam ki raksha karte ya muslim etc ki?

aajkal itna adharam bad gaya hai. hanuman ji kuch kyu nahi karte?

Bhagwan Sri Vishnu ji ka avtaar ho gaya hai kya?

Bhagwan Sri Vishnu ji itne papiyo ko kaise khatam karenge?

kaba mein jo shivling hai jiski puja muslim karte hai kya wo sahi hai?

Dharam ki raksha ke liye kya karna chahiye?

Hanuman ji kis dharam se jyada sneh rakhte hai?

Hindustan pure hindu country kab banega?

mein manta hu ki mere kuch questions galat hai phir bhi mein unke jawaab chahta hu.

Setu Speaks: 
आपके सवालों को जब साक्षात् हनुमान पूजा में रखा गया तो एक प्रतिप्रश्न प्राप्त हुआ जिस पर आपको विचार करने की जरूरत है | वह प्रतिप्रश्न है -

"मातंग भी मनुष्य हैं और इसी युग में इसी धरती पर रहते हैं | फिर हनुमान जी सिर्फ मातंगों को साक्षात् दर्शन देते हैं अन्य मनुष्यों को क्यों नहीं ?"

इसका उत्तर आपको स्वयं खोजना चाहिए |

487. Hanuman ji ki bhakti

Jai Sri Ram
App sabhi hanuman bhakto ko Mera ram Ram ji.mera anubhav h ki m 17 saal say hanuman ji ki bhakti kar raha hu . hanuman ji ne mayre bahut say kaam shid k ray .mager aab 7 saalo m vo mayre ek bhee nahi sun rahay h.pata nahi Kyo. Plz aap mujko bahane ki kirti karay ki hanuman ji as ha Kyo kar rahay h.app mujko hindi m batanay ki Kiran karay. Jai shree ram

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

शायद आपने हनुमान जी से जाने अनजाने में मोक्ष अथवा ब्रह्मज्ञान की इच्छा प्रकट की है | मोक्ष की इच्छा सिद्ध करने के लिए भक्त को हर तरह के अनुभव देना आवश्यक होता है - सुख दुःख , हानि लाभ , आदि आदि , ताकि भक्त इन सांसारिक अनुभवों से ऊपर उठाना सीख सके | हनुमान जी आपको परम ज्ञान की और ले जाना चाह रहे हैं |

||राम||

488. Hanuman ji ki Kripya

I belong to a lower class family in Delhi, From the childhood i have seen may ups and downs in my life no relatives even my family family members were not supporting to us. My father was not taking care of us, My Mother works and feed us though she is not educated as a house made she take care of us. we lived in extreme poor condition but my father never worked for it. As we have full faith in Lord Hanuman, we did not had enough money to feed 10 people in a single time but with the blessings and help of Hanuman ji My sister got married and sufficient amount were received as a loan of other sources for her marriage, I was not good in study and having good marks in graduation like a dumb. with the blessings of Hanuman ji i am completing my further study with zeal to success and got a good job in a good company. Hanuman ji made so many changes in my and in my family , still we are facing some problems but i can say our problems is not greater than Lord Hanuman. Jai Hanuman Jai Shri Ram.
Now i urge to serve my life to my mother and needy people like her.want strength and dedication.
Please pray Hanuman ji sabke dukh kare.

489. Hanuman ji r soul purifier

Jai hanuman thank u so much for making a part of this , really feel blessed n wait for d next chapter . Had become devotte of hanuman ji after joining this sight . Have started feeling nyc n lighter . Wanted to share had seen Lord hanuman in my Dream few days back n saw myself touching his feet n felt so blessed n since that day was waitng for d next 5 th chapter more eagerly . Feel hanuman his presence sumtyms . Don't know but after reading 5th chapter had felt as if d 5 th chapter was sumwhr giving a big message to me . Jai hanuman ji Jai guruji

490. HANUMAN JI RAM RAM

HANUMAN JI RAM RAM....PLS BLESS ME WITH BHAKTI,SHAKTI COMPASSION and FEARLESSNESS

PRANAM HANUMAN JI

PLS FORGIVE MY PAST SINS AND MAKE ME PURE SO THAT I CAN SEE YOU LIKE MATANGS

491. hanuman ji se milne ki chahat............and my experience with lord hanuman puja

mera naam rakesh h mera janam sikar district, rajasthan, india me hua h. abhi mai delhi me rahta hu. mera yah experience h ki mere ko bahut year se sapne aate h jo sahi hote h matlab mujhe aage future me happen hone wali incidences ka pahle pata chal jata h. na ki apne bare me balki aap paas ke bare me bhi. mai hanuman ji bhakt hu mujhe raat ko sote waqt aisa mahsus hota h jaise lord hanuman mere paas ho.or mujhe aisa lagta h jaise mere saat koi ho. mai mere bare me jan na chahta hu ki mere saat kon h or wo mere liye kya karte h. mai bhi jan na chahta hu ki meri aatama ka bodh lord hanuman ki aatama ke saat h ya nhi. mai chahta hu ki lord hanuman mujhe sukh shanti de or mari man ki iccha puri kare. mai abhi jan na chahta hu ki mera pich la janam kya tha or mere pich le janam se is janam ka kya relation h. or mai is janam me aage jakar kya karuga . kya mere ko lord hanuman ke darshan honge ya nhi. Thank you

mai jab bhi lord hanuman ka naam leta hu......mujhe habhasi aati h

Setu Speaks: 
कृपया धैर्य रखे | किसी न किसी अध्याय में आपके पिछले जन्म की कहानी भी आएगी और आपको प्रभु के दर्शन भी होंगे |

492. Hanuman ji se prathna h hmari binti sune

Jai sree ram. Mera sawal ye hai ki kya iss yug may bhi hanuman ji hai agar hsi to hmare prathna ko swikar kyu nhi kar rhe hai mere kasto ka niwaran kare prabhu ji. Hm prem viwah karna chahte hai par hmare pariwar k log nhi maan rhe h aisa kyu mere sath ho rha hai jabki mere pehchan may jin logo ne prem viwah kiya unk ghar wale maan gye hai. Hay prabhu kis baat ki saja de rhe hai ap hm har roj apki puja karte hai par hmare kasto ka niwaran nhi ho rha prabhu. Hmara jivan sukhmai bnaye hanuman ji. Matang guru hmara bhagya btye pls. Mera date of birth 25/09/1984 hai subh k 8.30 am. Naukari may bahut pareshani hoti hai har jagah mera paisa dub jata hai kyu aisa ho rha hai. Mujhe apmay pura viswas hai hanuman ji ap meri prathna sunoge.

Setu Speaks: 
निम्न 4 बातों का ख्याल रखें -
(1) आप में अपने लक्ष्य को पूरा करने की तीव्र इच्छा होनी चाहिए |
(2) उन इच्छाओं को पूरा करने के लिए आवश्यक प्रयास करें अन्यथा आपकी आत्मा उन लक्ष्यों को इस संसार में पूरा करने की बजाय स्वपन लोक में पूरे कर लेगी |
(3) अपने दिल दिमाग में “भय” “चिंता” आदि नाम के असुरों को जगह न बनाने दे अन्यथा हनुमान जी को लगेगा कि आप उनकी बजाय असुरों को अपने दिल दिमाग में रखना पसंद करते हैं | बाधाएं दूर करने के लिए हनुमान जी की सहायता प्राप्त करने के लिय यह अति आवश्यक है |
(4) अपनी प्रार्थना को सरल रखें | अपनी प्रार्थना अपने और प्रभु के बीच रहने दें उसमे आप परिवार , समाज तथा अन्य लोगो को शामिल न करें | सही प्रार्थना - “हे प्रभु मेरी आवश्यकताए पूरी करें ताकि मै मोक्ष के मार्ग पर चल सकूँ |” गलत प्रार्थना - “मेरे जीवन में फलां व्यक्ति को ले आयें , मेरे परिवार को ऐसा करें , मेरे समाज को ऐसा करें|” आप जितने लोगो को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल करेंगे उतने लोगो के कर्म रोड़ा बनते जायेंगे | आपके कर्मों के रोड़े काफी हैं , किसी अन्य के रोड़े मत लायें | जब आपकी इच्छा पूरी होगी तो आपके आस पास के लोगो को खुद ब खुद सहायता मिलेगी |

493. Hanuman Ji Solved Biggest Problem of My Life, Gives Me Dream Darshan for Quick Time Frame and Suddenly I am Directed To Setuu,

Jay Shree Ram
Jay Hanuman Ji,

Hello,

Honestly, I didn't know, How I came to Setuu.org , but the ways that directed me to came here was interconnected. Here I would Like to Share My experience, not just because I really want to, but Honestly, I didn't want to share Hanuman Ji Gives me a Short quick dream darshan, where I wasn't able to see Hanuman ji's clear Face Because of the daivik Shine on Face, my eyes were not able to see. Without sharing my experience I am not able to read hanuman Ji 's leela s and brahmgyan pravachans.

This was the beginning,

I was living abroad apart from wife, and any how me and my wife couldn't get together, for visa issues. After marriage, 6 months after I came abroad and she was backhome India, and She stayed without me for 5 years, crying everyday,.

There was a Day, I was so Upset , and i don't know how, but sudden sit for praying hanuman ji and was cryingly requesting him please, Solve the biggest problem of my life , i prayed in hindi'' he hanuman ji, jese tumne shree ram or sita maiya ko firse mila diya tha, muje bhi meri wife se milado ''' from then I was sincerely Praying Hanuman Ji by chanting Hanuman Chalisa everyday, in few weeks after heared a good news for approval and Finally she approved and The 5 year 4 month wait is over and my wife is with me,

I always chanting hanuman chalisa, ...and..

There was a day , I see a dream , where I was In place were Big mountain surrounded by green forests, and I see a quick , darshan of Hanuman Ji, right infront of me and immidiately I was on my knee and spoke, Jay shree ram, '' I seen Hanuman Ji, with Very shining face, but eyes couldn't catch the face clearly, but I seen Beared, hairy body, Gadaa, ... i was On my knee and I spoke, Jay shree ram. ( I didn't Know , How suddenly That Happened).

I don't want to share it as I have that moment captured in my mind and Everyday while chanting Hanuman Chalisa, I have my closed eyes with rememebering Hajuman Ji Darshan.

Now, After that, Seriously, honestly How I came to Know about setuu.org, but I believe this all is interconnected and ( Hanuman Ji 's Leela ). brings me here to read Hanuman ji 's Leela.

****** At this Moment, Me , my wife are strongly Believing that, Hanuman Ji Protecting Their Devotees,

Jay Shree Ram
Jay Kesari Nanadan.

494. Hanuman ji Is watching the world

Jai Shri Ram , My very first experience is simple yet it is very much linked to my life .
I was already in the charans of shri hanumanji , And that is when i started getting really connected to hanumanjis leelas through emails , I had no idea hoe suddenly i started receiving information about hanumanji , As this itself says that lord Hanuman is watching each and every one in this world and trying to help each needy in this world .
JAI SHRI RAM , JAI HANUMANJI

495. Hanuman Kavach

Hello Setuu Masters,
I have been reading Panchmukhi Hanuman Kavach daily for the past two weeks and feel a lot better now a days.
I wanted to understand how sanskrit verses and shlokas for Gods and Godesses like Hanuman Kavach and Durga Kavach work.
Does playing or listening to mantras and prayers continuously help to transfer positive energy into our sub-conscious?
Any information regarding sound energy, vibration etc. will be helpful.
Thanks a lot!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When you transcend your mind, you reach to level of your soul. That is when you connect with God. When you are living at level of body-mind, you are disconnected from higher powers. And to help you transcend your body-mind, there are many ways. To transcend your body, you can simply close your eyes. You will cut off from entire outside world and transcend your body. But transcending mind is very difficult in this age. You start getting random thoughts which keep you tied to your mind. To transcend your mind, the word or Shabda is the key. There are words which have sounds that help you transcend your mind. Those words or pattern of words is called Mantra. And then there are words which have information attached to them that help you transcend your mind. When your mind absorbs that information, you tend to fly out of horizons of mind. Those words are called Brahm Gnan or the supreme knowledge.

Mantra is used by devotees following Bhakti Marga and BrahmGnan is used by those who are following Gnan Marga. However, in Kaliyuga, the combination of both is recommended.

Blessings

496. Hanuman my Brother and Friend

The biggest impact I felt was when i began to go beyond just prayers to Hanuman. When I began to actually imagine him in his form walk near me, sleeping next to me and having conversations with me (even casual/joking ones), it made me feel safe, never lonely and always taken care of.

497. Hanuman as my maanaseega Puthra

Hanuman!! You have always answered my prayers when it is very sincere from the deepest of my heart. But nowadays I am very distracted and not able to feel the same amount of devotion. I feel so bad about it. I feel that i approach You only when i need something. Why have i become so selfish? I want my relationship with you as something selfless, as someone who just enjoys praying you, as someone who is your mother. Also I want to learn all the nuances of music from you. Will You oblige oh Lord!! Will You oblige, my son?

Just reading the conversation that You had with the monkeys gave me goosebumps. My heart longs to see You, talk to You and be in Your company the rest of my life. I want to exprience You in every minute of my life.

With devotion,
Sowmya.

498. Hanuman The rakhsyak of this world

Maine apne daily life mein bohot kuch experience kiya hai lord hanuman ko lekar. Jabse maine setuu Hanuman ka page mein kuch chapters padha hai tabse mere sath ajib ajib ghatnae ho rahi hai kavi mere sapne mein toh kavi real mein. But usse pehle vi lord hanuman ji mere sapne mein ek bandar ke roop mein aa rahe thee aur jab mai unko dekh kar ghabra gai tab woh ek chote bache ke roop dharan kar liye mere samne aur ek mandir ke pass mai baithi thi tab woh aake mere godi mein apna saar rakh kar mere ankho ko dekh kar mujhe Maa bolke pukarne lage tab maine unke karuna vari ankho ko dekha aur yeh sapna maine subah mein dekha tha aur jab mai uthi tab maine hanuman chalisa ko suna jo ki kahin mandir mein baaj raha tha aur uss samaya maine dekha ki mujhe chicken pox ho gaya tha.yeh sapna maine 2011 ko november ke mahine mein dekha tha. Aur 26th january, 2015, subah ke 5 am ko maine spne mein dekha ki mai , Hanuman ji, aur kuch adibasi loog srilanka ke ek jungle mein ghum rahe thee aur hanuman ji hum sabko puri jungle ghuma kar dikha rahe thee aur uss samaya hum sab ek bohot hi alaag language mein baat kar rahe thee.....aur maine hanuman ji ke liye ek Marigold flower ka mala banakar liya tha unke gale mein pehnane ke liye aur uss time maine jab woh mala hanuman ji ke gale mein dalne ke liye hath badhaya tab hanuman ji achanak badhne lage 20 ft tak aur itne bade ho gaye ki hum sab dekhte hi reh gaye aur uss time teez hawa vi ane laga fir hanuman ji ne mujhe bole ki aab mujhe woh mala pehnao fir maine bola ki kaise yeh mala mai aapko pehnaungi aap toh bohot bade ho ki mera haath aap tak pohonch nahi payega fir hanuman ji ne apna right hand lakar mere pairon ke pass rakhe zameen par aur bole ki yeh raha mera hath aab tum mere haath ke upar chadh jao fir mai bohot ghabra gai toh hanuman ji ne firse mujhe bole ki daroo mat tumhe kuch nahi hoga fir main unke haath par chadh gai aur hanuman ji ne mujhe dhire dhire apne face ke samne le gaye aur fir bole ki aab mere gale mein woh mala daloo fir maine hanuman ji ke gale mein woh mala dala aur unke face ko dekh kar muskuraya....fir hanuman ji ne mujhe apne haathon se niche utar diye...aur woh apne height ko ek manav jaisa hi bana diye aur hume firse jungle ghumane lage ....kuch der baad hum sab ne dekha ki ek adibasi ladka around 25 age ka tha usko chicken pox hua tha aur uska sharir bubbles se vara hua tha aur woh ek purane jamane ka bed jaisa kuch tha usme leta hua tadap raha tha tavi hanuman ji ne usse kuch jadibutiyan khilaye aur uske sharir pe apna haath laga diye toh uska pura sharir thik ho gaya......aur woh hanuman ji ko pranam kiya aur fir hum agge badhte gaye aur jungle mein ghumne lage.....

499. To Hanuman ---Regarding payment not being given by one customer from long time

Hello Hanuman ,

One of the customers ,whose company name starts with "S" has not made the payment from last 6 months ,inspite of giving committment and assurances .

Is this the way of keeping committment ?

Make him to give the payment ,it will reduce my stess.

Thanks

500. hanuman shiv

mene akasar apne sath ye mehsus kiya h ki hanuman shiv hamesha mere sath rhte h jo meri har mushikil ko aasan aur nirakaran kr jate h.
jai shiv hauman

501. Hanuman Swami's Blessings

I have lived in Daman near Gujrat with my husband and kid. Even though we hail from Kerala, we went to Daman since my husband was working there. So, the house we lived in Daman, was a kind of ghost-house like. And have heard many experiences from the helper boys who stayed there, telling that during night time, somebody used to come and catch their neck. Finally no helper boy was left there because of frequent scary things happening. Finally, when my husband went to work, me and my kid would be left there. The owners were staying in the same house- One aunty, her husband and her daughter. But most of the day time, nobody would be there in the house, except me and my daughter who was 4 months then. Aunty used to go for shopping, her daughter used to go for studies and uncle used to go to his Hotel. In midst, i used to experience certain scary moments in our room. I used to feel that somebody is standing in our room and sometimes, at night somebody catching my neck etc. It was a time full of terrible experience. But when i told my concern to husband, he was not ready to believe all those. Then, finally i started praying Hanumanji daily and i could feel his presence there. Then, I started gaining inner strength. I believe that Hanuman swamy was there with us to save us from all worries. Thank you Hanuman swami. Prayers. Bless us all including all animals and birds from worries both mental and physical.
Thank you

502. Hanuman visitation on jayanit

when i read here that anyone who loves hanuman will be able to see him on hanuman jayanti between 4 and 8 pm, i did not want to miss the darshan, so i set my alarm clock for 4 pm.
as it was a hot and humid afternoon, i easily fell asleep.
just before 4 pm, the wind picked up, and all the trees were swaying, and i was slowly coming out of my sleep.
first i felt a tingling above my upper lip, and slowly the tingling came all around my mouth, as if it was swelling up. it felt as if pins were pricking me all around my mouth. it was a sensation that i have experienced for the first time in my life.
the alarm started to ring, and the sensations stopped. that is when i realized that hanuman has blessed me with darshan.
later in the evening, i and my wife went to a dance party to celebrate the darshan. i love to dance, and as i was dancing with my eyes closed, i suddenly saw hanuman sitting on the speakers!! he seemed amused to see us dancing, and said that we are all behaving like monkeys!!

503. HanuMandal aur Charan pooja kaise karein.

jai shri hanuman

aapke 6 th adhyaye ke liye dhanyawaad. kripya bataye kaise HanuMandal banaya jaata hai....yadi humey pics mill jaye HanuMandal ki toh aapka bahut bahut dhanyawaad. Hum kaise uss khas tel to prapt karey jo woh Hanumandal ke Bahar aur Rekha par rakhtey hai. Kripya sheegra Uttar dey. Thatha charan pooja kaise kii jaati hai..??

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्मस्वरुप ,

सेतु का कार्य श्री हनुमान जी के निर्देशानुसार उनकी लीलाओं को भक्तों तक पहुँचाना है | हमें साक्षात् हनुमान पूजा में जो भी आदेश श्री हनुमान जी से प्राप्त होगा, हम उसी अनुसार कार्य करेंगे | अगर उनका आदेश होगा कि मातंगों का गुप्त ज्ञान आप तक पहुँचाया जाए, तो हम अवश्य पहुचाएंगे | लेकिन अभी तक हमें ऐसा कोई आदेश प्राप्त नहीं हुआ है |

|| राम ||

504. hanumane

You are my guru. But i am happy experiencing you as god. i relate more that way. i have been waiting for some message from you. i don't think I am advanced enough to see you. However i also believe miracles can happen with you around. We had a Ganesha pooja and Devi pooja at home. Felt good. hanumane, we all need your blessings. Jai Hanuman. Jai siya ram. Pranams to all there.

505. Hanumanji

main din ba din pareshaniyo main ghira rahta hu. har samay ulta sidha sochta rahta hu. karta sab ke liye acha hu par galat samjha jata hai. ji karta hai marty ko gale laga lu. agar koi upay ho pareshaniyo se nikala ka to bataye. hhanuman ji ka upasak hu. par lagta hai ki main uki bhakti kar nahi pa raha hu

Setu Speaks: 
निम्न 4 बातों का ख्याल रखें -
(1) आप में अपने लक्ष्य को पूरा करने की तीव्र इच्छा होनी चाहिए |
(2) उन इच्छाओं को पूरा करने के लिए आवश्यक प्रयास करें अन्यथा आपकी आत्मा उन लक्ष्यों को इस संसार में पूरा करने की बजाय स्वपन लोक में पूरे कर लेगी |
(3) अपने दिल दिमाग में “भय” “चिंता” आदि नाम के असुरों को जगह न बनाने दे अन्यथा हनुमान जी को लगेगा कि आप उनकी बजाय असुरों को अपने दिल दिमाग में रखना पसंद करते हैं | बाधाएं दूर करने के लिए हनुमान जी की सहायता प्राप्त करने के लिय यह अति आवश्यक है |
(4) अपनी प्रार्थना को सरल रखें | अपनी प्रार्थना अपने और प्रभु के बीच रहने दें उसमे आप परिवार , समाज तथा अन्य लोगो को शामिल न करें | सही प्रार्थना - “हे प्रभु मेरी आवश्यकताए पूरी करें ताकि मै मोक्ष के मार्ग पर चल सकूँ |” गलत प्रार्थना - “मेरे जीवन में फलां व्यक्ति को ले आयें , मेरे परिवार को ऐसा करें , मेरे समाज को ऐसा करें|” आप जितने लोगो को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल करेंगे उतने लोगो के कर्म रोड़ा बनते जायेंगे | आपके कर्मों के रोड़े काफी हैं , किसी अन्य के रोड़े मत लायें | जब आपकी इच्छा पूरी होगी तो आपके आस पास के लोगो को खुद ब खुद सहायता मिलेगी |

506. hanumanji

jay hanuman ji ki jay, aapki charnome pronam karti hu hanumanji, aap sab ka vala kore, or mujhe thora sa gayan dijiye.

507. Hanumanji give me blessings & strength

With the grace of almighty Lord Hanuman, I got a job in a reputed software company in december 2014. My training is going on right now. But I am not able to perform well in my training. Two assessments are over and I didn't do well in any of them. May be this is because I am from Electrical and my training is in Computer or I didn't study well. I don't know.

Sometimes I think to go for Phd and sometimes I think to prepare for government jobs and sometimes I think to continue my this very job and do my best in this very field. I am really very confused. Also, I am not able to concentrate on my study(training). I don't know what to do. I don't know why all this is happening to me.

If I don't perform well in my retest, I will lose my job. My parents have lot of expectations from me. I don't want to hurt their feelings by losing this job. I want to make them proud by performing well at my job.

Please show me the right path.

If Lord Hanuman is testing me, I request him to give me blessings and strength so that I pass his test with good marks.

Hanumanji, give me blessings that I complete my training and perform well in my this very job. Prabhu please forgive me if knowingly or unknowingly I have made any mistake either in this birth or in previous births.

Jai Bajrangbali. Jai Shree Ram.

Setu Speaks: 
----- Included in the Pooja -----

508. Hanumanji has filled me with positive energy

After reading chapter 1 I feel positive energy filled in myself. Since yesterday my life was filled with negatives. I feel Hanumanji has come to help me. Thank u Hanumanji. Please bless my family. Protect us and guide us in right path. Please make all my dreams come true. Please be with us always. I continue to worship and adore you till the last breath of my life.

509. Hanumanji ka mere sapne me bar bar aana...

mera naan jitendra sukdeo gosavi he..
me Erandol, dist -jalgaon,state maharashta, India me rahta hu..
me hanumanji ka ek chhota sa bhakt hu..or me hanumanji ki dhyan me har roj rahta hu uthte ,baithte, sothe, aur nahate samay bhi me hanunamji ka naam ko smaran karto hu aou unka bhajan me gata rahta hu..ek bar me hanumanji ki hanuman chalisa 7bar roj padha krta tha auo 7 din tak me subah uthkr pehle hanumann chalisa ka path krta aur fir anya kam kaj..pan 7 din hote hi agli raat jab me hanumanji ka naam leke soya ..tabhi hanumanji me muze sapne ek drustant diya..sapna aisa tha ki me khet me khel raha tha or achanak koi mere samne upar akash me udd raha tha to meme gor se dekha to mere ramdut hanumanji the..auor wo me upar se age ki oour chale gaye ..me bhi unke pichhe bhaga or bhagte bhagte muze ek admi ne roka or wo bola ki tu apne pyare hanumanji se milne ja rahe hoto apne kamar me se wo kaale rang ka dhaga tod kar fenk de to me wo kaal rang ka dhaga me kamar me se kat kr fenk deta hu or..us admi se puchhta hu ki apne mere hanumanji ko dekha he..to wo bola age jao maine waha dekha prabhu ko..to me age bhagte bhagte jata hu to waha ek bahut purana mandir hota jo ki pathhar se bana hua tha ..tabhi maine hanumanji ko us dwar k andar jate dekha to me unke pichhe bhaga to age andhera sa tha..tabhi me us andhere me hanumanji se takra jata hu....tab mera man bahut komal hogaya or khushi ka thikana nhi raha ..me kuch hanumanji se kehta tabhi hanumanji me muze apne kamar par utha liya jase meri maa muze bachpan uthaya krti ti thi..maine dekha tab hanumanji ka ang sharir bhi bilkul pathhar ki tarah tha or me unke kandho se hanth bheta raha...or tabhi meri nind khul gai....
or tab se me hanumanji ki dhundh me sada rahta hu..or aisi ichha hoti he ki kash prabhu muze sakshT me mile or me unse bate kru....our bhi 4 sapne muze aise aye he hanumanji ke...me wo age likhunga....

Jay shree Raam..jay shree Haanuman...samarpan...

510. Hanumanji maharaj ki kripa.

I hv experience. many times in my life when was young that any worry or obstacles of life as my husbands sichness has been removed ,after I chanted 108 times Hanuman chalisa.
I felt that Bhagwan Hanumanji is my grand father and whenever I cried in desperation after getting humiliated in family life ,I experiences that Lord Hanuman ji has given me strength to cope up.I bow my head infront of Hanumanji.
I know in my heart or soul that Hanumanji is alive in this world and protecting people.I have recieved a photo of Hanuman ji ,looks very old..
Kripa ho to apke darshan sapne me karane ki bahut ichcha hai.

511. Hanumanji protected me from my bosses at work in a multinational company in mumbai

The year was 1985 .I was deputed as a unit head for our companys first budget hotel in a remote area.For reason beyond my control and due to lack of support of some directors of my company I was suddenly told one day that my services were not required as I was ineffective.This, I was aware was not true.My father advised me not to leave this job else they would say I left due to corruption from my side,

Then I was sure as always that since I am innocent and had not cheated or robbed Hanumanji would protect my job.As usual I prayed to him .But now a known Brahmin and worshiper of his advised me to say in fact the same mantra of Hanumanji several more times than I normally do.

I was troubled and harassed by these superiors for six months with cheap baits and offers.
But I prayed hard to Hanumanji as advised by my spiritual brahamin teacher.Exactly six months later I was called back to work and all became well.

The mantra I was reciting was Vadavanal Stotra and also Vichitra Vanal stotra.

Please let me have the Mathang Baba Mantra of Hanumanji as well.

HANUMANJI KI JAI RAM JI KI JAI !

Arun V Ajinkya

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Your experience has been included in the Sakshat Hanuman Pooja. We have released only first line of Mantra after release of 3rd chapter as per direction of the Lord. Second line will be released after 5th or 6th chapter. If you have not got the first line yet, please drop a line at soul@setuu.org to get your Mantra.

Blessings

512. Hanumanji's CharanChitra Experience

My sincere thanks and obeisance to Lord Hanumanji, since I became matured, I worshipped Lord Hanumanji, and Lord Hanumanji is my only strength, I am so honour to write here and feeling so blessed that I got an opportunity to worship Lord Hanumanji and really thankful to the lord for the same, I have Hanumanji's Charan Chitra via Blisla and I used to worship and I become so positive, I just want that Lord Hanumanji to be with me every time and provide me and my family strength as and when we need, and also make me such person that I can help the other, and always allows me by giving the opportunity to worship Lord Hanumaji, Soon I will become a father and I really thank lord Hanumanji for the same, and I really wish my child to have qualities like Lord Hanumanji. I pray to Lord Hanumanji to protect us always, Jay Siya Ram, Jay Hanumanji, LOVE YOU :) I wish and hope to be blessed from Lord Hanumanji forever...........

513. Hanumans Blessings

Hello All... I am one among the millions and trillions who worship Chiranjevi Anajani Puthra Rama Priyaya Hanuman. I always wanted to be his true devotee & have read very few storoes of him in Ramayana & Mahabaratham. Whenever I used to read about him I will wish to see him in a temple. Once I read about Aanhaneyar in a book that comes twice in a month & I found that temple close by from where I stay. I've crossed that place a lot of times & I dint know that there was a Hanuman temple there.. I was praying & I was telling Hanuman to bless me by showing me where the temple is & attain his blessings there.. One night as usual from my office I started to home & all of a sudden there was a rain surprisingly. So I had to stop my bike for a shelter. When I parked my bike & looked the opposite side I was standing at the entrance of the street where the temple was situated. The rain then stopped & I went to the temple in the Saturday.. I was very happy since Hanuman blessed me.. I will be there frequently. There are lot more to share.. But all that I wanted to say is be true & believe in Hanuman. Hanuman will always be with. I am experiencing it all the time. I've even asked him for a chance to meet in person with his original form. Jai Shree Ram..

"Abara Karunaam Murthim Aanjaneyam Namamyeham" This means he showers his blessings on all of us. "Asathya Kariya Saadhika Aanjaneya Potri: This means he is capable of doing anything in this world. Jai Aanjaneya! Om!

514. Hanumans presence

First experience I had is when I was doing a Pooja at the alter and as soon as I closed my eyes the apple flew out of the alter and landed on me.
Second experience my family and I was coming back from a trip, reaching my house at around 1 am.my son and wife said oh my god..we just saw hanuman..I took it lightly..throughout the months I came to know and visited a very very old secluded hanuman temple at the same spot they saw him.since then that has been my constant visit.
3Rd experience. I never dreamt of any gods..nor remembered any if I did.however when I woke up it is still clear in my head, I was going up some steps into hanumans cave, and saw his troops coming down the steps amd I still kept climbing the steps to see him in the cave.i woke up.
4th experience. My dad have been dreaming alot about him since I started praying to hanuman ji.my dad was worried at one point of my declining biz and family life, hence he prayed and went to bed.he dreamt a group of monkeys surrounding him by his bed and a big big monkey was sitting next to him and he was stroking his soft and amazing fur...explained my dad.

515. hanumat

hanumanji maharaj swami, rakshak, guru, aradhya sabhi kuchh hai. unse prarthana hai ki ek bar darshan avashya de.

516. hanumat kripa

hanumanji to bare bhai ki tarah sda meri sahayta karte hai , jab b unka dhyan karti hu to bhgwan Ram ke charno ke paas baithe dikhayi dete hain .Hanumanji apni kripa bnaye rakhna
RAM RAM Ji

517. happiness and fear

A s a child I never needed a reason to be happy. Even as young adult it was more or less the same. But now I am afraid of being happy. I am afraid of showing happiness. When there is so much unhappiness around us, so much so that I feel I can never do anything for that, I feel guilty and I feel like holding that happiness within me. May be my experiences in life has made me so. At the same time I feel not showing happiness is like not being satisfied which is wrong. These are my thoughts. Anjaneya, I prostrate before you. Accept me and enlighten me. Namasthasyei namasthasyei namasthasyei namo namah. sri gurobhyo namah. pranams to all there.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You are shifting from outward happiness towards inner happiness. You are moving towards inner peace and contentment. Unfortunately the way from outwards happiness to inner happiness goes via sorrows. But for you that period is also over. Now just sit back and watch yourself moving towards absolute happiness which does not depend on outer circumstances.

Blessings

518. Happy Hanuman jayanti

Dear Settu,

Sai Ram
Jai Hanuman

Today we are celebrating Hanuman jayanti here, in Andra & Karnataka. It is said that Hanuman met Mata Sitadevi in Ashoka vana on this Vaishaka suddha dashami.(jai Sri Ram).
I was not able to go to temple as I was on my 4th day of my menses. Instead I read Hanuman chalisa at home 5 times. I heard here from the mainstream society that 5 is the number for Hanuman. Like offer him any fruits in 5, coconut 5, and so on. So I recited Hanuman chalisa 5 times :)
Hope I have also joined you today in your upasana :)

Hey Anjaneya Hanumaa Ramabhakta remove the fear of death O Lord
Make my heart your residence.
Let at every blink of my eye I feel only you. Jai Hanumaa, Jai Sri Ram.

With gratitude and devotion,

519. happyness from worship

from start of the reading of the chapters from 1 i feel nothing strange with me, but when i got this mantra firstly from my brother. slowly-slowly i start chanting these mantra. now these days when i chant "sitaram" and this mantra i feel like that my body want to fly in the sky. my soul want to see hanuman ji as soon as possibly. Ofcourse i know that hanuman ji is with me all the time but i am unable to see him till this time. I am very curious to know about the true relation between me and hanuman ji. slowly-slowly I start loosing interest in this world and want badly to connect with hanuman ji properly and forever. i want the pure form of his bhakti and i believe him that somehow very soon he give me the way to find him out and see him...talk to him....

520. Have a question.....

When I am reading these chapters it appears to me that when LORD HANUMAN JI is blessing the Mathangs with supreme knowledge I am also sitting with that assembly and seeing him live. These chapters enlighten me.....

Apart from this I had a question related to the 11th chapter. When we are dreaming, we sometimes encounter the fact that we are dreaming i.e., conscious dreaming. In dreams we know that we are dreaming. Oh SETU MASTERS I want to ask that is conscious dreaming an another concept or it is somehow related to desire fulfilment. Please seek me with this concept....

A Devotee of HANUMANJI

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When your soul is halfway between MaanavLoka and SwapanLoka, you experience what you call as conscious dreaming. It happens usually just before you are about to wake up in MaanavLoka.

Blessings

521. HE is listening

Me and my family were unable to get in touch with my brother abroad. I chanted the mantra once with a sincere prayer in my heart of my brother's safety and well being. within 5 minutes ,my brother called. I know it's sounding somewhat insignificant but since the time I have read the Lord Hanuman's leelas I have a connection with HIM :) He is more than an idol I used to see every Tuesday :)

522. Healing by lord Hanuman

Jai Sairam jai hanumannji
I am suffering some ill health and lots of pain in the body and even staying in the best country in the world all I have at disposal to treat is a bottle of pain killers just as mentioned in the first chapter here. I saw a dream of lord hanuman standing and in my sleep I started chanting hanuman chalisa . The pain reduced . Next day morning I get the link of setuu. And then the first chapter . I am full of faith that the lord will cure me soon. I hold on to Him tightly . I pray He hold on to me and heal me and set me toward His holy feet . I Pray lord cure the lameness of my body and mind . O merciful lord .
I put my prayers onto your divine feet .. My abode.
Jai veer hanuman Ji namah

523. Health & Wealth weakness

Jai Hanumaan ji.......

Mein apni aaj ki zindagi se bohat preshaan hoon. meri sehat 7,8 saal se kharaab rehne lagi hai. aaj ke time mein bohat preshaan hoon. mera sir chakrata rehta hai, jiski wajeh se mein job v nahi kar paa raha. mein sara din ghar per pra rehta hoon. mera man poora udaas ho geya hai. mera kahin jaane aane ko man nahi karta. Hey Hanumaan Ji, meri taraf se benti hai ke muje theek kijiye aur muje path pooja karne ki bal budhi dijiye.

aapka abhaari

Jaspreet Singh
Mohali.
+918566000036

524. heart felt gratitude to setuu masters, the whole mathang community, Lord Hanumanji, Supreme Lord Rama

Namaste!!

My salutes to the Supreme Being Lord Ram, Lord Hanuman and all the Divine setuu and mathang souls!!

(1) As a child I always wondered who I am and why I am, what the universe is and why there is happiness or sadness. I have anticipated for some of these answers from some point in my life, I dint have a peace of mind at all after that. My existence din’t make sense to me. Everything around me stopped making sense. I yearned for the answers, an invisible force guided me to my answers, it was like the universe was putting me in places to get me the answers, which led me on to the spiritual path. And it was this force that led me to setuu website. It is a blessing from the Divine Lord, I got peace of mind after I started reading the words of Hanumanji himself from these chapters. I always felt getting lighter or nothing at all after reading a chapter. My friends tell me I look much more happy now. I see the difference in me, I am not who I was. I am lighter, more happier and complete than before. My heart felt gratitude to setuu masters, the whole mathang community, Lord Hanumanji, Supreme Lord Rama and the entire universe for this Divine work. Thanks you!!

(2) Most of the questions I had have been answered, but I have a few more questions. Kindly, answer these questions for me. It has been explained by Hanumanji in previous chapters, how, why n when souls raise out of Muktisagar, but what was the first instance of a soul raising out of Mukti sagar and how could it have occurred? There would have been no suras and asuras then, how could have people generated good/bad karma? When did the first kalpa happen? How did this cycle of kalpa come into existence? Shukracharya, asuras and all good and bad come from the supreme lord himself. He is the creator. He must have lead to the start of all of this. What is the purpose of all these? Is this a plan for a greater progression?

(3)In previous chapters, Hanumanji said there are several worlds and each of the worlds are different and some are higher (shiva loka, vishnu loka, Brahma loka) and only the worlds closer to our world affect us. In the recent chapters, he said we have many parallel universes co-existing at the same time. What is the exact relation between these worlds and universes?

(4) The world around me and every aspect of it is very much real to me, and that is what is conveyed when end of kaliyuga is mentioned, but Hanumanji also says it is all an illusion/maya. If its only an illusion, it should be modified in a second right? Why does the Supreme Lord have to come down himself to change things? Then, is the maya described only individualistic, restricted to the way one perceives the world, and not including all aspects of existence? Are the effects of maya on an individual soul and the collective consciousness different? If an individual breaks free of this maya and attains liberation, the world would still continue to exist as it is, but does this single soul leaving effect the world anyway? I am not able to comprehend the extend of the maya. Can it me explained further?
Or, is my the thought process flawed here? my mind expects a start and end to everything, it wants everything to be linear, is this an aspect of maya, and I am not able to perceive the truth beyond the constraints of the mind?

(5) I have been meditating for past 9-10 years and I had these instances in life, when I have foreseen or fore-thought something happen and it happened. It was a different state of mind, a more grounded and connected state, thats how I perceived it. But, I never could fully get a control of the state. These instances happened more when I meditated regularly. But then, when I stopped the meditations this skill vanished away. I understand Kamadhenu cow such a state of the being, or the state of the realization of maya. Am I right? Or, am I misinterpreting these instances?

My apologies for such long para, and for the poorly framed questions. I couldn’t put them in a better way. The whole idea of maya is elusive to my mind.

Thanking you in advance,

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

In MuktiSagara, concept of TIME doesn't hold. So 'first' or 'last' doesn't make any sense in Muktisagara's perspective. For example, your soul can go to Muktisagara now and see an event which happened millions years ago (from human perspective) happening in MuktiSagara right now. We humans are used to concept of 'Time'. You need to go beyond Time to be able to witness events happening in MuktiSagara. From human perspective, there is no first. It is a cycle. There is no end and no beginning. You may find a beginning only to discover that it is just another point in the cycle. You may stop exploring and call something a beginning. But if you keep exploring, there is no beginning.

You have read about higher worlds wrongly. Shivaloka, BrahmaLoka and VishnuLoka are different. Patala and Vyahritis are different. Lord Hanuman has called 'Vyahritis' as higher worlds and 'Patalas' as lower worlds. Only 7 Vyahritis above us are perceptible to us. Only 7 Patals below us are perceptible to us. For sake of our observations, we can say that there are 7 Patals and 7 Vyahritis. But actually they are infinite. To visualize this, you may imagine that you are in a mysterious room which has doors in all 4 directions + doors on the ceiling + doors on the floor. You can exit from any door and you will get into another world. And there is no end thereafter. You may keep on going and you will find no end. If you exit from the doors in the ceiling, you are going higher. The worlds which exist beyond those doors are 'higher worlds' or vyahritis. Similarly the worlds which exist beyond the doors in the floor are called Patals or lower worlds. The doors in the 4 walls of the room lead to parallel worlds.

the words you have written in paragraph 4 should be meditated upon deeply by you. These are divine words which show that you were in a very high level of consciousness when you wrote them. Here is a hint which will help you in sailing in correct direction :
Suppose you do not have any identity. You are in complete darkness. Then you happen to find a box. You open the box and discover a identity and whole universe which comes with an identity. Within a second you start identifying yourself as a human which is in MaanavLoka where Lord Vishnu is expected to come for welfare of the world. When you close this box again, you again lose everything and go into complete darkness. You forget about humans, MaanavLoka, Lord Vishnu and everything. You are in that box right now. Lord Vishnu is the power which helps you realize that you are in a box. You have written this paragraph by the blessings of Lord Vishnu. If you manage to come out if this box, it will be thanks to Lord Vishnu. Coming out of this box means attaining Moksha.

Kaamdhenu is when you don't come out of the box but get the ability to jump from one box to another.

||Ram||

525. Heaviness in head

A friend of mine suggested this website yesterday. Today I read the first chapter fully. I don't feel wow but stunned that how connected we all are and that we are all part of an illusion. Felt heaviness in the back of my head initially. Later slightly dizzy. Should I continue reading? I am a Christian and have not done arpan before. What does it mean? If I make an arpan, what am I committing myself to?
I felt some energy in my body while reading this first chapter. Am I feeling outside energy because my own energy is weak? Please help, jai guru dev.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Dizziness and heaviness may happen because first chapter creates a strong disillusionment about the world in the reader. It basically switches you one layer up from your bodily identity towards your soul identity. Switching from smaller identity to larger identity involves energy which you feel flowing towards you.

Arpanam can be done to any deity you worship. It is a commitment to the deity that, "I have switched to a higher identity by reading this chapter and I do not wish to fall back on the smaller identity." .... OR "I have taken one step towards realization of supreme truth and I don't want to go back". Arpanam should be done immediately after feeling that energy as you have described. Fruits or flowers can be offered to deity at home or temple.

Blessings

526. help

Swamy i am in a big problem. Please help me immediately please.

527. Help me

Hi mera naam prayas hai. Maine hanuman g ki puja ki hai 2 yrs. Tk aur maine aisa anubhav kiya hai ki wo mere saath hai... mujhe aane waale bhaviysha ka ghyaan hone lagta tha apne baare mai aur mai khuli aankho se ghatit hone waala ko dekh sakta tha...pr meri puja chut gayi. . Aur hanuman g ki kripa b hat gayi... ab mai bahut pareshan hu...apni life se sankat hi sankat hai har jagh
Ab unki puja ki koshish krta hu...pr waise puja mere se nai ho pati jaise mai pehle kiya krta tha...mai mantro ka jaap kiya krta tha ik pustak se padhkar jiska naam hanuman sidhi tha..
Kuch hanuman g se sahyta mil jaaye to mai phr se unki puja aarambh krna chahta hu pr dil se nai ho paa rahi hai puja

528. Help me get a glimpse of Shri Hari Shri Ram

I am 32 years old and am living in a state of indecision not knowing what to do. I am working as a banker but not satisfied. I have worked as software engineer but was not very happy . I feel something is missing in me but don't know what is that? I take Ram's name I remember Lord Hanuman several times but don't find him anywhere? I want to be on the right path as Lord krishna says you do my duty i will take care of you. What is that Lord krishna wants me to do?
What was i in my previous birth?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

one should always have a higher purpose in life like Moksha or getting supreme knowledge. Then only you get peace, happiness and satisfaction in life. Ultimate destiny of every soul is Moksha or liberation from the mortal worlds. If a soul has reached to a certain level on path of Moksha in previous birth, but in present birth has completely forgotten it's purpose of life, this kind of feeling of disturbance arise. You don't need to know details of your previous births in order to resume your journey. When you start it, you will realize that you are already evolved to a certain level. You don't have to start afresh. You can resume from where you stopped in previous birth.

Blessings

529. Help me Hanuman Ji

I need help in getting permanent job and want to get married .. nothing at all happening , feel like ending my life lost trust in all Gods and myself and fed up in this bad world , ave been cheated in life and in job , marriage also .

Arathi jain

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Your prayer has been initiated. From today, get rid of negative thoughts. Look around you with a positive outlook. We have got a message that you do not listen to the signals of Lord Hanuman. To get something good in future, you need to be in peace with your past. From this moment, forgive everyone who has cheated you. From this moment, stop repenting on your past. If you forgive everyone and remove the baggage of your past from your back, very soon you will get someone in your life who will bring good luck in your life. As of now, be happy with whatever job you are doing. You should be proud of yourself that you have lived your life with dignity so far. Do not care about what others think about you. Love yourself and be proud of yourself. You have lived your life with dignity, do not let others ruin your love for yourself. Soon you will get someone in your life and after that your life will become secure on both personal and professional front. Do not forget the conditions: (1) Forgive everyone who has harmed you. (2) Stop repenting on past and look towards future (3) Be proud of yourself and love yourself.

Blessings

530. Help me please.

Jai Sriram,

Continued from #499073.

I understand intellectually that all that happens ,happen for a reason. My fear of worshipping God came from the fear of unforgiving parents who gave me cruel punishments and mental torture. I am ashamed to say that today I am a person with very low self-esteem , afraid of people and indecisive. I have this belief that if parents themselves don't understand kids and punish them cruelly why wouldn't God do the same?

Kindly answer me.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

At least feel blessed that you have a different perspective from the crowd. While most people worship parents because of the love they get from them, you have a completely different experience. Hence you are at an advantageous position as far as perspective is concerned. When you have a different perspective from others, you are closer to God because it become easier for you to rise above body-mind and live at the level of soul.

Think like this. That is how you amend the past and move towards a better future.If you remain stuck with the bad memories of past, the future wont come out good either.

Blessings

531. help needed

Hi

Thanks for bringing light to me. After reading I got lots of answer in my life

However I have few queries

From Past almost 6 months
Most of time I have depression and unhappy from my life. Recently looks like I am being sort tempered getting angry quickly and fearful

Please help

Bhavesh

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You are blessed one. Lord Hanuman wants you to observe who is getting short-tempered and who is getting angry. It is not you. When you get angry, just watch yourself. This is a way of Lord Hanuman to teach His disciples. Just observe yourself. There is no need to suppress these feelings and no need to feel bad about it. He wants you to separate your body-mind and soul. The anger comes in body-mind. You are a soul, not body-mind.

Blessings

532. Help Required

My self always believe that we all are child of lord Hanuman and I feel from child hood that I am a part OR an extension of lord Hanuman soul. I always prayer only lord Hanuman and fully devoted to them. Also after getting membership of "Setuu" and reading there chapters, I feel my cleanness of my soul from dust.

But, from last 1-2 years, nothing is going positive in my life and all thing goes wrong OR unhealthy. It gave me feeling that Lord Hanuman is not happy with my soul, it may be possible that something goes wrongly by my work which can hurt the lord.

I want to ask lord Hanuman through your team of Matang's , please let me know my mistake and it's solution, so that my life will again go smoothly and my all work will be done positively and myself leave the life with his blessing.

Awaiting your revert.

Thanks & Regards,

Rajesh

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Anger and Cheer are Lord Hanuman's Leelas to bring a devotee on right path. It doesn't mean that He doesn't care for you. Those souls who are not connected to Him neither get anger nor cheer from him. So, even if you have faced His anger, that means your soul is connected to Him and He loves you.
Just take care of these 4 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals : Be it materialistic goal or Moksha.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear", "worry", “doubt”, “victimhood” etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.

533. Help & Support

Glad to read and know about Sh HanumanJi presence and kindness showered on us still. I am very spiritual and believe in God, the life cycle and karma. Hope my offerings please HanumanJi and I seek his kindness, wisdom and togetherness in return, always and always in this and next birth too.

Dear setuu.org team, I would be happy if I could be of any operational support in this great cause by any way possible. I would feel privilege in helping you to deliver all the chapters of the book to the world, or in any other form.

Thank you Again!

534. Help Us Lord

Everyday when i wake up,, I thank the God to for helping me ,to bless those born with good health,to give a happy life for those married & to please give moksha to 5hose dead.Thank you God for letting me start everyday with a good note.I start writing my experience by thanking all those who have helped me directly or indirectly to be who Iam now.After reading Lord Hanuman's chapter about the past, present & future,I told my Mother and we did dussehra dishes ,, Prayed to Lord and distributed them.God I have a few wishes , My Mother has suffered soo much in the past and is suffering even in the present , knowingly she has nt done any harm to anyone she has mostly gone in the path of righteous , please Help My Mother My Lord. Iam studying in a place where we students are treated like animals , please Help me Lord to complete this course with minimal obsracles that i can bear.Please Help My Mother,Father & Brother to have all thier good wishes fulfilled and please make them happy my Lord. I also wish that Lord my Husband to be and his Family & All Others in this World be blessed with Happiness and Good Health ; to help those to get knowledge and regret for their mistakes who have did wrong deeds in thier life.

535. Hey Prabhu DsharathNandanPramDas!

||Ram||

Bar bar ki asflata kya batati hai..pichle janam ke karam ya is janm ke karam me kami ?

mai kai sarkari jobs ke from bhar chuka hoon..lekin har bar asflta..mata pita ki ummede kuch puri nhi ho rhi..is deh ke jane kitne karam bandhe hain.ek Jyotishi ne bola ki aapki kabhi sarakti job nhi lagegi..to kya me prayas band kar doon ab ?

ab Umra bhi 31 ki hone aagyi..lekin me prayas karta rhunga..akbhi to karam katenge pichle

jeevan ka Lakshya bus yahi hai ki kha liya so liya,kuch jeevan ke liye uprajn kar liya..aise hi budhe hokar mar gye?

||Ram ||

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

इस बारे में इंद्र देव ने ११ वे अध्याय में बताया है | अगर आपके कर्म (इस जन्म और पिछले जन्म मिलाकर) योग्य हों तब इच्छा पूरी होती है | यह बहुत पेचीदा प्रश्न है और इसके कई पहलु हैं | अगर आप चाहे तो पिछले जन्मों के सभी कर्म शुद्ध कर सकते हैं | शुद्धिकरण का एक तरीका १२ वे अध्याय में बताया गया है | आगे के अध्यायों में भी कुछ पहलु सामने आयेंगे |

एक बात ये भी है कि माता पिता अथवा किसी भी अन्य व्यक्ति को अपनी इच्छा में सम्मिलित मत कीजिये | इससे उनके कर्म भी आपके कर्मों में जुड़ जाते हैं |

ज्योतिष मात्र एक गणना है जो सही भी हो सकती है और गलत भी | उस गणना के आधार पर हार मान लेना गलत है |

हर आत्मा का उद्देश्य मोक्ष होना चाहिए | तभी जीवन में संतोष और शांति आती है | उदाहरण के तौर पर , यहाँ पर एक भक्त ने कुछ महीने पहले इच्छा प्रकट की थी कि सरकारी नौकरी मिले | वह उसे मिल गई | अब हाल ही में उसने लिखा कि नौकरी तो मिल गई किन्तु मुझे शराब की लत लग गई है , उससे छुटकारा दिलाइये | जब यह इच्छा भी पूर्ण हो जायेगी तो कोई और इच्छा आ जायेगी | ऐसा जीवं पशु के जीवन के समान है : जहाँ घास मिला उधर हो लिए | इसलिए बड़ी इच्छा रखिये - मोक्ष की इच्छा रखिये | बाकी इच्छाएं शांति कभी नहीं ला पाएंगी |

|| राम ||

536. Hey Prabhu Krodh aur akrmanyta...

Jai Shree Ram!

Hey Prabhu jab Krodh aur Akarmanyta bdhe tab manushya kya kare..jisse ki jeevan me sambndhit aatamao ka udhhar ho..

|| Jai shree DashrathNandanPramdas(Hanumanji) ||

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

आपका जो हिस्सा क्रोध और अकर्मण्य धारण करता है उसे देह तथा मन कहते हैं | आप देह और मन ही केवल नहीं हैं | आपकी पहचान आत्मा की है | जब देह-मन में असुरी प्रवृतियां आने लगे तो आत्मा के स्तर की और उठ जाइए, व प्रवृतियाँ चली जायेंगी | या फिर उन प्रवृतियों का देह और मन के स्तर पर रहकर ही विरोध करें और सूरी प्रवृतियाँ लाये ताकि असुरी प्रवृतियाँ भाग जाएँ |
||राम||

537. Hi

Hi

Jay hanuman

I m devotee of hanuman.

Now a days i m facing lots of problem.
Paise ka itna tension he paise aate nai he sirf karcha hota rehta he.
Kab tak ye bure din he meri life me.

Last 6 8 months se esa hi chal raha he
Kuch achcha hoga ya fir sab esa hi rahega.

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

धैर्य रखिये और अपना ध्यान रोजमर्रा के जीवन के अलावा किसी बड़े उद्देश्य जैसे ब्रह्मज्ञान/मोक्ष की प्राप्ति आदि में लगाइए , सब कुछ अच्छा होगा |

||राम||

538. hindi

deen dayal birdu sambhari harhu naath mam sankat bhari isme bahut sakti hain bade sankat ke samay main is mantar se akdam raksha huyi

539. hindi mai margdarshit kare...

As per u said in chapter 7,

लगभग 3 घंटे बीत गए | बसंत की टोकरी में अब केवल 1 फल बचा था | लाल टोकरी में ज्यादातर फल गए थे जबकि एक दो फल श्वेत टोकरी में दिखाई दे रहे थे | जब कोई फल श्वेत या लाल टोकरी में गिरता था तब बसंत की आत्मा हल्का महसूस कर रही थी क्योंकि उसको सुरों और असुरों के प्रभावों से छुटकारा मिल रहा था |

Hum jab setuu par arpan bhejte hai paiso k roop mai,
To aap log hamare paiso se fal khareedte hai charan pooja k liye ?
Aur kya humare fal charam pooja maI shaamil hote hai matango ki tarah ?
Aur wo humare fal bhi karmo k hisaab se alag kiye jate hai ? Jisse humari atma ko bhi sur aur asoor k prabhaav se chhutkara mile?
Kya process hoti hai humare kiye huve arpan kii ?
Plz I want to know it...

Plz reply me in HINDI ONLY

Setu Speaks: 
प्रक्रिया तो वही होती है किन्तु आपके भेजे फल चरण पूजा में नहीं साक्षात् हनुमान पूजा में अर्पित होते हैं जो रोज होती है | चरण पूजा केवल 41 साल में एक बार होती है |

||राम||

540. Hoi gurudev

Jai gurudev. How I apply these knowledge in my life. May I make Arpan at my local Honuman temple.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Yes, Arpanam of fruits and flowers can be done in any Hanuman temple. This knowledge is transcendental, just flow with it. It will take you towards Moksha,

Blessings

541. Hope that Future will be good

"Continued from #495374"

Thanks for the quick reply. I must say after going through your reply a positive energy comes to me and I feel more energetic and confident than before.
I don't think about what people think about me. People say so many things behind me and in front of me too. But I try to ignore everything and focus on my work.
Forget people, sometimes even I start thinking about myself. It has been almost more than a year and I am not able to get a good job. Time is passing and I am not able to stand on my feet. Still I am dependent on my parents. I don't understand what and where the problem is. Why I am not getting a good job of my liking? Are my Karmas not enough to get a good job of my liking?
Not always but sometimes I really get depressed, frustrated and worried regarding my career. Even after studying so much, I am not able to grab a job yet. Many of my friends and others get job just after B.Tech. I did M.Tech and too from one of the premier colleges of the country but I am finding it hard to get a good job. I am not comparing myself with others or my friends. I am just saying. I know everyone's Karma is different. I have been a good student since childhood but I don't know why I am facing so many problems in getting a good job.
But I have full faith in Hanumanji and I believe soon he will give me a very good job. I don't know what he has thought for me. But whatever he has thought for me must be good for me in the long run. He must have something bigger and better for me.
And I believe in your words too Setuu. You have told me Accept the past, live in the present. Do your Karma without any worry, Future will be good. If you are saying that my future will be good, then, I am sure my future will really be good.
I have started reading Sunderkand. I read 12 dohas everyday and in this way Sunderkand will be completed in 5 days and the cycle will be repeated. Also, I have started chanting Hanuman Chalisa 11 times or more everyday.
My Pranam to Setuu Masters and Mathangs.
Thanks and regards.

Jai Shree Ram
Jai Hanuman

542. Horrible Feeling

My dear Lord Hanuman,

I am going through a very bad stage now. My mind is experiencing a kind of fear that i become mad or something. I feel very low nowadays. especially after my marriage. Its been 5 years since i got married and i m really unhappy. I have a daughter now. But throughout my married life, i had bitter experiences only. I have no day without crying. Even my husband was careless on me, even sometimes i feel hes still the same now.
In 2012, I have been working in a firm. During that time, i stayed in my home and travelled to the job place. And each weekend, my husband used to take me to his home, just for the sake of showing other people that i visit my husband's home. Neither he nor his parents talked to me with compassion or love. They saw me as some girl from outside. I have never felt any attachment towards them. Initially, even though i considered all of them as my close people, eventually, they proved that they are not as sincere or genuine as me or my parents. And later, since i suffered from certain mental problems, I was taken to a Psychiatrist. And then later, i was almost cured from my big problems which i suffered mentally. Even now, im taking my medicines, prescribed by the Psychiatrist.

Now, again, i have started feeling the same suffocation i used to experience before. And now, what im thinking more and making me kind of mad is i couldnt marry a person of my wish or i didnt get the person i liked.

Hanumanji, please save me from all these unnecessary worldly thoughts, and kindly help me live in midst of peace and happiness, and also good people around me, who doesnt hurt my feelings. Bless me Hanuman swamy. Please save me from all fears, anxieties, evils, tensions and other health problems.

Please hear my Prayer Hanuman Swamy

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If an animal wants to hurt a human, human can climb to a higher place like a tree where animal cannot reach.

Everyone of us has a higher place to climb. That higher place is our soul. People can hurt mind, not the soul. Rise to the level of soul and then enjoy the drama being created by ignorant people. Recognize your soul. Your circumstances are an opportunity in disguise.

Blessings

543. How to be free from Desires and Attractions?

O Lord Please give some clarity!!!
To lead a peaceful life- a Desire.
To lead a financially secured life- a Desire.
To lead a successful and stress-free life - a Desire.
To bring up children as useful citizens- a Desire.
These seem noble..

To experience every possible comfort - a Desire.
To experience richness and power - a Desire.
To experience pollution free environment -a Desire.
These seem selfish...

To do a disturbance -free penance and impress God- a Desire.
To be able to become one with the Para Brahman- a Desire
These seem spiritual....

Without desire I am unable to live. I am so weak to resist any sort of attraction. How can I overcome this problem?
Everyday if one swtiches his TV on, many advertisements show casing many Yantras (like Shani Hanumathe Kavach) and other spiritual related goods like rudrakshaas, pendants etc are being aired. Is this the correct way to pursue buying them or is there any way to reach one's own inner self?

O Guru!!! Please enlighten!!!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Do not believe in superstitions. If you want to fulfill your desires, here are the 4 things you need to take care of:

(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear" and "worry" etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.

544. How to be liberated inside the world

Jai Shri Ram
Jai Shri Hanuman
Pranaam,
I am a 21 year old male currently pursuing my Engineering. I have no shortage of anything in life due to Prabhu's grace. Every time I am in danger, Prabhu comes to my rescue. My Lord is always watching me.

As mentioned earlier, I do not lack anything in life. I have a great family, a good future and no financial issues. However, due to the immense blessings of my Lord, I have a spiritual bent of mind. While I am attracted towards questions like "Who am I", it is the bhakti of My Lord that gives me the most joy. Listening to my Lord's Leelas often brings me to tears. I know that the form of Bhakti I have is lowly and that it is due to His infinite kindness that Lord Hanuman has taken care of me. However, I still do not have a burning desire for his Darshan. I feel that maybe this is because the time has not yet arrived but I know that I love My Lord a lot. Even when I am in difficult situations, I know that my Lord will do nothing that can harm me. So every bad situation is a blessing in disguise that removes my bad karma.

What I want to know, however, is that how can I attain Moksha while being in the world. While I am ready to give up everything (not at the moment though, I will prepare my body first) for Moksha, I feel that I have a sense of duty towards my parents. They spent their entire life for me so it's my duty as a son to see to it that they receive all the happiness in their old age. I know, this may be a form of attachment, but still, I am ready to leave everything after they depart their worldly bodies. I want to provide them with all the happiness possible. I will take on any bad karma if it removes their sorrows.

Therefore, Dear Setuu Masters, I want you to guide me, as to what to do next? I feel that Lord Hanuman will talk through you and provide me with answers. I have received some answers. Some answers remain. Please guide me. I know that by the Grace of Lord Hanuman, I will surely get advice.
Sorry for the long post, I just wanted you to know my situation.
I look forward to your words of wisdom.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

To Grihastha Sadhakas, we can only suggest reading Lord Hanuman's Leelas being published here. You should fulfill your family responsibilities sincerely. Your words suggest that you are a sincere seeker. When there is a sincere seeking of supreme knowledge, there is a Guru. That Guru can be invisible, That Guru may or may not be human, That Guru can be Lord Hanuman Himself. You must be having a Guru around you. Recognize that Guru. He will create situations in your life in order to impart supreme knowledge. Observe those situations. While your boy-mind are performing worldly duties, at the same time your soul can remain connected with the Guru. Then your life itself will become a Sadhana. Then you will be on path of Moksha.

Blessings

545. How to be a perfect human

with people around us, with different characters i am finding it hard to digest their selfish characters. Please advice

Setu Speaks: 
Lord Hanuman says,

It is good that banks of a river does not attract the impurities towards it. Let the impurities flow in the river. If banks of the river start collecting the impurities, river will start shrinking and one day it will disappear. Only impurities will remain. When you look at the impurities flowing in the water, do not say- ,"Impurities are so lucky. They are enjoying the ride in the river." Instead say- "I am the banks of the river. I have bigger responsibilities."

546. How to be sure that you are on right path now...

I would like to know that in our life we choose so many different paths, and due to this sometimes get confused about the correct one. How can we make us assured that we are on right path.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Right path is a relative term. Set your goals first. At a given time, with all the information and authority at your command, if a path looks right for your goal, you should follow that path.

If your goal is Moksha, Just observe how do you feel while following a path. If you feel connected with the higher reality while following the path, you are on a right path.

Blessings

547. HOW CAN I DEVELOP A STRONG BELIEF TOWARDS LORD HANUMAN

"continued from experience 513746"
जय श्री राम
जय श्री हनुमान जी
हे प्रिय मातंग ऋषियों आपको चरण स्पर्श।
मैं दो महीने पहले setuuसे जुड़ा। तब मैं श्री हनुमान की भक्ति में खो गया,मुझे हर तरफ हनुमान जी महसूस होने लगे। तभी मैं एक परीक्षा में सफल हुआ लेकिन मुख्य परीक्षा में सफल नहीं हो पाया फिर मेरे अन्दर भक्ति कम हो गयी लेकिन मैंने आपके अध्यायों को पढ़कर थोड़ा बहुत जो नालेज पाया हूँ वही मुझे भगवान से जुड़ने की ताकत दे रहा है।
मैं और किस प्रकार श्री हनुमान जी से मजबूती से जुड़ सकता हूँ।क्या मेरा स्वार्थ मेरी कमजोरी है? अभी मैं अपने जीवन की कठिन परिस्थितियों से गुजर रहा हूँ। मेरे माता पिता जब किसी पंडित या ज्योतिषियों से मेरे समस्याओं का समाधान पूछते हैं तो वो लोग मुझे श्री हनुमान जी की पूजा करने की सलाह देते हैं और वानर को चना खिलाने को कहते हैं। मैं हर मंगलवार व्रत भी रखता हूँ जिससे मुझे अच्छा अनुभव होता है।
मैं श्री हनुमान जी से किस प्रकार जुड़ा हूँ और मैं कैसे उनसे मजबूती से जुड़ सकता हूँ,ताकि मेरे कर्म मेरी सफलता के लायक बनें।मेरा मार्गदर्शन करने की कृपा करें।
।।श्री राम।।

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

अपनी भक्ति को सांसारिक सफलताओं और असफलताओं से न जोडीये | हनुमान जी की भक्ति को मोक्ष से जोडीये , फिर भक्ति प्रगाढ़ होगी और सांसारिक चीजे अपने आप पटरी पर आ जायेंगी

||राम||

548. How can a student grow in his career and spirituality at the same time

Jai Hanuman.
I'm kalyan a medical student. I don't remember how i came to know about setuu but since the day i first read the first chapter my life or to be precise my view about the world has completely changed. It was like lord hanuman wanted me to follow his path. It is a great blessing for me. I am kinda interested in spirituality since my childhood. I used to go to hanuman temple every Saturday all my childhood untill i was kept in hostel for further studies. But after knowing about lord hanuman return after 42 years love for spiritual path in me has increased tremendously. I think it is only because of lord hanuman's blessings. Thank you so much setuu for connecting my lord with me again.

Here's my question:
Since im a student i have to continue my career and be part of family. Since I'm the elder son and lost my father when i was 12years old i have a lot of responsibilities for the family. I'm a little short tempered also which i want to change all the time but couldn't do it. Can you help me in enlightening me with this knowledge of how to manage both family and spiritual life parallelly and how to get off the anger from me. Thank you. Jai hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Chapter 27 answers your question.

549. How can we get associated with lord ?

Its always said that human life is very precious and being in materialistic world we are always busy in various other activities which does not serve the purpose in true sense of getting the ultimate goal of human life.
It seems so hard to be left pure as these blessed tribes are in this world so the chance of getting interacted to lord Hanuman ji is very less. Lord Krishna or Ram is said to be the ultimate supreme in the universe so is there anyway we can get directions from Lord Hanuman ji to get Lord Krishna in our lives. I mean to say if Lord Hanuman can guide us a way like Guru. Since lord Hanuman is nearest and dearest to Lord Krishna and Ram.
I urge to leave this body and get my tiny soul be the part of ultimate soul of that Prmatma or to remain in the consciousness of Lord so as to serve throughout. Since being human we are always indulge in the materialistic activities and slave to the maya and moh. How can we be associated to lord and can get escape from this annoying experience of repeated births and not getting what we are looking for.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Lord Hanuman comes to the Mathangs to give them Brahmagyan. Whatever He has spoken, He has spoken to unsettle the structured belief of the new generation of Mathangs and to make room for the BrahmaGyan. Therefore If you accept Him as your Guru and follow the conversation between Him and Mathangs, we can assure you that you will also get the Brahmagyan. We are translating the Log Book. Do read every chapter as we post them. We will be posting second chapter shortly.

Blessings.

550. How is caste of a person correctly determined?

Dear Setuu Team,
Is the caste of a person supposed to be determined by his birth or by his profession?
Thank you.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

As described in chapter 20, humans create systems of classification for smooth functioning of society but these systems turn out to be faulty and have to be chucked or repaired over time. Firstly, no human designed system is perfect. Secondly, when times change, almost all systems get infested with social evils. No system is flexible enough to last forever. Current caste system is beyond repair.

To answer your question, caste of a person cannot be determined by birth. That can be implemented if all children, no matter what their parentage is, are admitted in an education system which gives equal opportunity. Their caste should be determined after graduating from that education system, based on how their characters develop.

Blessings

551. how to chant om mantra

जय श्री राम
जय श्री हनुमान
मातंग ऋषिओं को मेरा प्रणाम एवं नमन
मैं लगभग तीन महीने से ॐ मंत्र का उच्चारण कर रहा हूँ। परन्तु मुझे इसका सही उच्चारण नहीं पता। अगर मैं इसे तेज ध्वनि में उच्चारण करता हूँ, तो इसका अलग प्रभाव दिखता है। पर यदि धीमी आवाज में उच्चारण करता हूँ तो इसका अलग प्रभाव दिखता है।
मैं अपने आप ही ओम मंत्र का उच्चारण करने लगा था। मुझे पता है कि ये सब श्री हनुमान जी की कृपा है। ओम मंत्र की महत्ता का मुझे पहले पता नहीं था। लेकिन जबसे मैंने इसका उच्चारण आरंभ किया तब से मैं ऐसे अनुभव किया कि उसे शब्दों में नहीं बता सकता। इतना कह सकता हूँ कि ये मंत्र हमें ईश्वर के करीब ले आता है।
कृपया मुझे बताये इस मंत्र के बारे बतायें। क्या श्री हनुमान जी ने कभी इसकी उत्पत्ति के बारे में कुछ बताया है।
कृपया मुझे इस मंत्र के उच्चारण का सही तरीका बतायें।
जय सीता राम
जय हनुमान
अपनी कृपा बनायें रखें।

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

हनुमान जी ने विश्व की हर चीज के बारे में विस्तार से बताया है लेकिन उनकी लीलाओं को समझने में हमें समय लग रहा है | आप आने वाले अध्यायों में धीरे धीरे विश्व का सारा ज्ञान प्राप्त करेंगे |

||राम||

552. How to communicate with our own Antaryamin?

Pada Pranams to the Lotus feet of Shree Hanumaan ji.
Namashkaar Setuu Masters & Mathangs
What is sadhana/ contemplation required to achieve Mukthi & God Realization? Is love and devotion towards the Aaradhya alone enough for that? Humans beings are stucked at various levels such that they are unable to seek the real path to Enlightment. Please guide us and help us to understand its necessity with your incredible wisdom.
What is the way to recognize and communicate with our own Antaryamin?
I completely believe that the phenomenon of Kalki has already descended on Earth to save the Humanity and make the righteous stand for the coming ages because kali yuga is at its peak. Please enlighten us about it.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

In Kaliyuga the illusion is at such a peak that you may be in illusion that you are devoted to Lord but actually you may be entertaining the Asurrahs residing in your body-mind. Therefore, at this point, only the supreme knowledge is that sword which can break the illusion and help us realize the supreme truth. Lord Hanuman is imparting that knowledge through these chapters and Lord Kalki will have His own ways to do so.

Blessings

553. How to concentrate on aim

"Continued from #46195"

Jai Bajrangbali
Jai Shree Ram

As I have mentioned in my previous experience that I didn't do well in my first two exams of training, I am not getting peace of mind. All the time, fear of losing the job comes to my mind. Also, I am not able to concentrate on my study for further exams. I am really very much disturbed.

I don't know why all this is happening to me. All the time I just keep on thinking how will I complete my training and save my job. Every time I pray to Lord Hanuman for my job.

I just want to know if Lord Hanuman is testing me by creating such situations? I have been in such situations earlier too. Every time I came out of it with the grace of Lord Hanuman. I always think nothing wrong can happen to me as Lord Hanuman is always there to protect me.

Once you told me that even the greatest bhakts of Lord Hanuman have to go through many difficulties to reach very close to Lord Hanuman. Is my present situation similar to or related to it? I also want to be very close to Lord Hanuman. I am just a mere ignorant bhakt of Lord Hanuman. I don't know what Prabhu has thought for me. May be he is doing all this thinking of my long term benefit and I am not able to recognize it because I am looking for my short term benefit. Also, I don't know about my karms in my previous births.

Such thoughts always come to my mind. I don't know whether this is right or wrong. I am saying all this to you so that you may tell what is right. Also, after going through your reply I really feel relieved and feel good and confidence come to me. And I think I have moved one more step closer to Lord Hanuman following your advices. Please forgive me thinking as an ignorant if I said anything wrong.

Right now I am really very disturbed. All the time, fear of losing the job comes to my mind. I am not able to concentrate on my study. I really need to concentrate on my study seriously and pass all my tests and retests and complete my training. Please show me the way.

Jai Bajrangbali
Jai Shree Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have full faith in Lord Hanuman, you cannot have fear. Leave everything on Him and just do your work. He knows what is good for you and what is bad in long term. He knows what to give you at what time.

Blessings

554. How do I know and when do I know that i become eligible for sadhana

Before reading your answer I thought i was in spirituality but you said that
"He would think that he is in to spiritually but actually he would be in to an illusion of spirituality created by Maya"

How do I know that iam in spirituality?
And you said there is a huge difference between running away and detaching away

At present iam 20 in a year or two I have to find a job to earn my living
How many years do I depend on my parents?

When I get a job I will in that tension
After wards Marriage
Children
Bringing up the children
old age
Diseases pains
And finally death

I don't want to get in to that trap
At present I don't have much attachments but when I get a job marriage children
I will have my wife, children, there children
Grand sons grand daughter and so many attachments
I don't want that attachments

Bcoz I don't want to waste my precious life
I was worried about leading the life in a normal way
But after reading Setuu Hanuman stories
I realised that I shouldn't waste this precious life

I don't want to get in to that routein human cycle
I want to detach away and come to setuu Hanuman bodhi and have Sadhana

I want to know how do I become eligible for sadhana
When do I become eligible for sadhana?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Your current state of evolution is such that you would want to run back to the society within 1 month of obtaining Sanyasi robes. You need at least 6 more years in mainstream society to find yourself and your purpose. Living in mainstream society with unusual and 'far from ordinary' tag is itself a Sadhana. Don't run away from this Sadhana. Face the people who are saying mean things about you. Face the society which is out to judge you. When you do this Sadhana, you will actually realize the illusion. Right now you have only read about it and it has pierced you only upto your intellect. Let it pierce further and reach your soul.Don't worry about marriage and kids. It won't happen in next 6 years. You are safe from that trap as long as you truly intend to become a Sanyasi and Lord Hanuman is there to guide your steps.

Blessings

555. How do I know that you are able to listen to my prayers

Being a normal human being how do I know whether my prayers are reaching to Lord Hanuman or not....so that I can correct myself. ....I need his blessings

556. How do souls in Muktisagara develop desire?

Dear sirs,

Attaining moksha requires supreme knowledge about releasing the concept of 'I' and also to be void of any desires, sorrow, pleasure, pain, etc. And attaining Moksha is the supreme goal of any soul once it understand the web of nets the mortal world is. And once the souls attain Moksha (leaving the karma and desires and also understand that there is no 'I'); they enter Muktisagara.

Once they are in Muktisagara, please enlighten me on the different reasons why souls leave them - as i understand there could be 2 reasons:

1. Illusion of Brahmaloka being so powerful pulls the souls out of Muktisagara
2. Souls developing desire

My questions are:

1. Are there any other reasons for souls to leave muktisagara?
2. How does a soul develop desire Muktisagara since it will get all that it needs within Muktisagara itself?
3. What happens to a soul without any desire being pulled out of Muktisagara due to the illusion power of Brahmaloka? does it go back into Muktisagara?

I find the chapters peeling off all my questions and providing a better understanding of the universe. I really pray to Lord Hanuman to provide me with the knowledge to attain Moksha.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

These questions are meant to be answered gradually in stages. If your mind gets satisfied right now, it won't be able to absorb further supreme knowledge. Please wait for upcoming chapters and enjoy the journey as it unfolds. Only the Guru Shri Hanuman knows when to ignite a question and when to answer it.

Blessings

557. How does Illusionary universe help us attain moksh

Jai shree Ram! Hanuman ji. I dont understand this concept of illusion. I want to know if we are also living in illusion. Isn't this real world and also want to know how we can attain moksh by bypassing this illusionary universe. Please help me understand hanuman dada

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You have to experience the supreme truth yourself. Anybody else may guide you or inspire you to take the journey of the supreme truth but the journey has to be undertaken by you and only you.

Blessings

558. How does Lord Hanuman look?

Dear Setuu,

None of us have ever seen Lord Hanuman except in images and idols.
Can someone from Mathang community actually depict a sketch of Lord and post that in the subsequent chapters?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Every word and every piece of content being posted here is posted only after taking permission from the Lord in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja. When He asks us to reveal His visible form, we will. He has not given this direction yet, most probably because visible form will be hindrance in imparting the supreme knowledge. When the world becomes eligible to see Him, you will see Him. Alternatively, you can detach from the world and come for Sadhana. If you complete Sadhana, you shall have His Sakshat Darshan.If you do not have family responsibilities and can devote at least 12 months in His service, write to us. We will guide you how to proceed.

Blessings

559. how does a shadhak promote or preach lord hanuman leelas in the society

gratitude setuu...
gurudev ko pranam...

how i the brahman can promote the hanuman leelas or setuu to the main stream society.
what are the condition and tools used by or what method does a setuu grant.

||ram||

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The Sadhakas act according to their own inspiration and direct guidance of Lord Hanuman. We, as an organization, only engage in deciphering Lord Hanuman's Leelas. We have no system to send preachers in the society.

blessings

560. How to forgive people

Pranam Guruji,

I am unable to understand few chapters,may be it will take time .guruji chapter 15th was very troubling for my mind( in true words I got scared and confused).I know its "bramagyan" so obviously aatma need some time. Chapter 16 was blissful. Guruji till now of all 16 chapters only for 2 chapters (chapter 12,16) I felt some lightness in soul but not for others,is it fine? I was in bliss or different world till chapter 13 but after this I felt lot of disturbances.

Due to rough situation in life since young age my tongue has become very bitter. I tell people whatever comes in my mind without thinking and my mind justifies my action saying that "its good as I am a straight forward person" but deep in my heart someone keeps telling that I need to change my nature.

The one person I hate in this world is my "mother in law",no matter what I do, I am UNABLE to forgive her.I have tried various methods like yoga,bhakti etc to forgive her but always FAILED in my all attempts till date.I keep bad mouthing her everywhere,friends,family,colleagues etc.I tried controlling my tongue,mind etc but no success. please suggest me something that can be understood by me.

pranam from my heart

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

For a householder, it is fine to have absorbed 2-3 chapters out of 16.

About forgiving, you must realize that you aren't doing any favor to anyone by forgiving them; instead you are doing favor to yourself. If a person is trying to harm you by any means, you must cut off from that person immediately in order to render him/her ineffective. Forgiving is a way to cut off from that person emotionally. As far as attachment is concerned, hate and love are same things. If you hate someone, you are attached to that person emotionally. And when you are attached, you can be harmed. Therefore, forgive them not for them but for yourself.

Also, practice silence. Speak to people only when it is necessary. Let your words be precious jewels. If you speak more than required, you are inviting trouble for yourself. Words spark troubles. Speak less, listen more.

Blessings

561. How to get peace of mind

Jai Bajrangbali.

Nowadays, I am going through a very tough phase of life. After completing my Post Graduate, I am looking for a job and admission in PHD. It has been around five months and I haven't succeeded yet in getting a job or admission in PHD. That's why I am not getting mental peace and am very stressed. Also, sometimes I get very irritated on small things.

I am not able to concentrate on my studies and job due to absence of mental peace. Some say that I am not getting job due to some dosh in my kundali. This also makes my mind very disturbed. Truly speaking, I am really very disturbed these days.

I really want to get mental peace. I really want to relax.

Please guide me in getting peace of mind so that I get over these anxieties and concentrate on my studies and job. Please show me the path to connect to Lord Hanuman.

Thank you.

Hanumanji, please keep your blessings on me always and purify my soul and forgive my mistakes either of this birth or of previous births.

Jai Bajrangbali. Jai Shree Ram.

562. How to get ridoff sin..?

I want to see lord hanuman but wil i able to see..??does lord hanuman give darshan to them who dont hve much sins..?i feel i hve commited though unitensionly but stil it is a sin.so will i able to see him?how to get ridoff my sins??

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Read chapter 16 to Learn how Queen Kaushalya used to do it for her countrymen. Limit your experiences arising out of illusionary knowledge. Then Lord Kaaldeva will be indebted to you and will erase your sins.

There are other methods also which are explained in other chapters. For example going to ShivaLoka or forcing Indra to purge your bad desires in SwapanLoka.

Blessings

563. How i came to know about Setuu?.By supreme grace of Bajrangbali on our family

It was one fine rainy sunday afternoon in april when i logged into facebook. I am not a subscriber or member of a community named Hanuman Chalisa.But somehow on my FB wall there was a photo of Lord Hanuman along with a Link to Nabharat Times. I read the Link and then from there i was redirected to Setu.. I read everthing on Setu and also the experiences people had after performing the Charan Pooja on the Nabharat Link. In no time i reserved 4 Charan Poojas ( for m Dad, Mom , elder brother and sister in law). Lord Hanuman is our KUL DEVATA( LORD OF OUR ENTIRE FAMILY INCLUDING THE ANCESORS). he is the Eastha deva of m Mom and my elder brother. My dad is his sincere devotee. By blessings of my Guru Jagadguru Shri Kripaluji Maharaj ( 5th Original Jagadguru of this world and founder of Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat known as JKP . Also known as BHAKTIYOG RASAWATAR, as his entire teaching is on NISKAAM BHAKTI , selfless devotion to the Lord. No favours , only serve the lord as his servant. Complete surrender), I also am a devotee of Lord Hanuman and visit a temple in Bhubaneswar conatining 108 idols of d Lord almost every Sat for the last 1 yr. What i meant here is thalt this is d supreme grace of the Lord dat somehow we were able to do Charanpooja and offer our Karma to Lord Hanuman,

Continued from #634, i am sorry as i myself am very concerned abt my nature. On one hand i am a sincere devotee of God and m Guru and on other side most of time m mind worries a lot abt future state of my family nd my career and life and the challlenges in life and how i can overcome them owing to my limited capabilties. It all stems from a negative thinking and lack of self confodence which i am culprit of allowig to grow in my mind.
The message i received from d Mathangs.. i took it this way. The tree symbolises the path of Bhakti (selfless devotion) as ordered by Guru. And the feet resembles faith in d lord (which i strongly lack) . In fact my devotion to lord stems mostly out of fear of the future and worry. So i pray Lord Hanuman to nless me with devotion and smaran of my guru and strong faith, shraddha in my Guru and myself (self confidence) and my capabilities. And take every situation in my life as a blessing of my Guru and Lord.Pls carry my prayers to d Lord.

564. how to ignore senses?

I am reading all chapters very carefully when they uploaded to site.

I am quite glad that i got knowledge to fly out your soul from this body and enter in other available bodies.

For that one must stop to react on senses, so brain get disconnected from senses and connects to soul (might be).

I have tried to do so, it might be happening to for a fraction of seconds but not more than that.

Could you suggest me simpler way to control senses or ignore senses.

Regards

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Think of bank of a river. It remains still while gallons of water flows through the river.

Let the experiences flow through senses, do not try to stop the experiences. Let them flow.

Blessings

565. How long before I can be one with you

Lord, As I understand you sent me here for a purpose or maybe I was being very stubborn to come here. Either ways, it's the end of my patience and I can bear no more suffering by being here any longer. I am really sorry and want to come back. How long before I can be one with you? Please give me a date so I can count down and wait for it. Its becoming very difficult to stay in this darkness.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Escapism is not same as liberation. When you try to escape from situations in life, you will land up in next birth with more complex situations. Supreme knowledge is the answer. Get knowledge and enlighten your soul.

Blessings

566. How many years of Sadhana will it take to become rishi?

Pranam Mathangs and Setuu masters

In chapter 18 it is said that
Just solve the kamdhenu puzzle
And know what is kamdhenu ?
You can become rishi
"Being rishi is being in heaven is being in heaven because a rishi can fulfill any desire without doing any Purushartha "

That means rishi can doing anything

If you solve this puzzle you will get all the powers which all Rishis have and become rishi

But being in this material world
It is very difficult to find an solution with the limited human minds
And it is said in 18 th chapter
Don't be trapped by your mind go beyond it

So it is very difficult to find the answer with the normal human brains

My question is if i come to setuu Hanuman bodhi
And have Sadhana
How many years will it take to solve puzzle and become rishi ?

Iam asked with my normal human mind
Iam sorry if am I asked anything wrong

Waiting for your reply

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Within 6 months of Sadhana, you will drop the idea of 'becoming' anything. Most souls choose to depart from this mortal world (for Moksha) once the realization happens. That means, your soul will depart from your body and it will be replaced by a 'visitor soul' from Vishnu Loka. That soul may choose to become a Rishi to complete the tasks assigned to it by Lord Vishnu.

Blessings

567. How to "minimise OR get rid of" these infiltration act of Asurahs

"Pl reply in hindi"
After reading all 7 chapters it is quite clear, although we normal human being
> can not see those asurahs who are infiltrating in our body and do all wrong behavior by taking control of "Body / Vivek / Samskar", now having known these facts how to prevent these?
> Since in our daily family life some times "myself or my wife or other family members" makes inappropriate behavior and started blaming each other for our wrong doing, this further disturb our peace of mind.
> Do we have any way to "get rid of" OR "minimize this effect" by safeguarding our "Culture / Vivek / Body" from infiltration of these asurahs?
> I hope, answer to above question, will blessed us with some source of energy for a normal human being

Setu Speaks: 
आपके प्रश्नों का उत्तर 7 वें अध्याय में निहित है | एक कलियुग के मनुष्य को एक नहीं बहुत सारे असुर जकड़े रहते हैं अर्थात मन - तन को जकड़कर उनके माध्यम से कोई बुरा कार्य करने की ताक में रहते हैं |

उदाहरण के तौर पर मान लीजिये किसी मनुष्य ने पहली बार शराब पी | अर्थात कोई असुर उसकी देह और विवेक पर कब्ज़ा करके उससे शराब पिलवाने में सफल हो गया | अब वह असुर ओर उसके भाई बंधू उस देह और विवेक को निशाना बना लेंगे और शराब की तलब लगायेंगे | वह इंसान शराब के साथ साथ अन्य कई बुरे कार्यों में लग जायेगा क्योंकि असुर अंतत उसके संस्कारों पर कब्ज़ा कर लेंगे | अगर वह मनुष्य पहली बार शराब पीने के तुरंत बाद अपने संस्कारों को जगा लेगा और यह चेतना जगा लेगा कि किसी असुर ने उससे गलत कार्य करवाया है और उस असुर के अगले 1 - 2 प्रयासों को अपनी चेतना और संस्कारों से विफल कर देगा तो वह असुर अपने आप भाग जाएगा | वह उसके आस पास नहीं मंडराएगा |

अगर आपके परिवार के कुछ लोगों को असुरों ने संक्रमित कर दिया है तो कम से कम आप संक्रमित न हो और हाँ जब उन पर असुर सवार हों तब उन्हें संस्कारों का पाठ पढ़ाने की कोशिश न करें | असुर अच्छे कार्यों से दूर भागते हैं | अगर आप गुस्सा करके कोई गलत कदम उठाएंगे तो समझ लीजिये असुरों ने आपको भी संक्रमित कर दिया | अगर आप अपने विवेक से अच्छा कार्य उनके आस पास करेंगे तो असुर कुछ पल के लिए दूर भाग जायेंगे और उन कुछ पलों में उनके संस्कार जाग जाये तो वे असुर फिर नहीं कब्ज़ा जमा पायेंगे |

568. how to overcome barriers

Thank you so much for everything.thank you for accepting my prayers. i can feel the difference. sri anjaneyaya namah.

i have a feeling there are two persons in me.or three perhaps? as i write or when i speak to myself, i'm both speaking and listening. one seems to be constant or unchanging and speaks very rarely or watches everything. and, the other is always active and confusing. i feel i need to overcome the latter. how do i do that? or, if i'm wrong, how do i overcome the confusion? everything seems to be affecting the latter as well. if i'm a soul, which one is it? who bears the karma? who dies? are all the souls connected? for instance, aren't my children's souls connected to me? whether i understand all that or not, i want to be with god all the time. anjaneya, give me bhakthi and save me.be with me all the time.please remove all the dirt accumulated over the years. i am doing my japam etc. still i remain impure.i'm sure i must have done a lot of paapams in my previous as well as presnt births intentionlly and unintentionally. i repent now. what should i do to be forgiven? i need a lot of strength and blessings to overcome all the hurdles. help me. give me and my family sadbudhi. give me bhakthi. sri gurubhyo namah. sri anjaneyaya namah. sri ram jaya ram jaya jaya ram. my namaskars to you. my namaskars to the sarangs and Setuu masters as well .

Setu Speaks: 
Divine soul,

If "you" feel that there are two persons in "you", then total how many persons are there?

Suppose there is a room and in that room, you can see two persons, then how many total persons are there in the room? 2+1=3

Similarly if you can see three persons in the room, total how many persons are there? 3+1=4

With the grace of God, you are on the right path. There is no "final" answer to this question because this question will take you to God. There is no stopping. If you have got an answer, that means you have given up the journey in the middle.

Keep watching "you". This "you" will make you observe 2, then 3, then 4 .... and then finally you will have Darshan of God.

Do not confuse yourself with the concepts of Karma and Soul. You might have heard many things about "Karma" and "Soul" from your childhood. Do not confuse yourself with those contradictory thoughts heard from here and there. Just do the Japa and keep observing "you"! You are on the right path. When you see God, you will have a clear understanding of "Karma" and "Soul". You won't need to rely on books when you have the first hand experience of seeing God.

Blessings

569. How to overcome hurt and live a blissful life?

"continued from #10056"
-----------
so happy i got a reply. am i accepted as a sishya of sri hanuman?! what more can i expect?am i worthy of it? i certainly want to go beyond the barriers and find the real self to reach rama. i've heard a guru recognizes his sishya and there is a special bond. will i experience that? to attain moksha. I have experienced many difficulties.i thought i won't be even able to get up. i had given up myself. but i also have been helped with a lot of kindness from ishwara. i've been protected as well. i've often felt that may be these difficuties are my guru's way of making me think.i have felt at one point in life that i was not anybody's slave and that god is the only truth but how to reach that? how to cross the barrier? anyway this is all i can. i need help for that great realization and blessings from my guru. i want to be blessed by hanuman. i want to be forgiven for my sins. i want to lead a fruitful life of peace and happiness so that i can also help the people around me. i want to reach god and not get stuck with all the hurts.i was very different. then when i saw problems around my people, i thought it's not worth it in life if i don't help. that was the beginning leading me into the world of maya. now so much of dirt has filled me that i can't purify without the guru's help. i also want to know why my brother too is going through a similar situation. how will i know hanuman closely? i have also felt that this is not what i want and that i have to leave. at the same time all my attacments pull me down.i need a lot of strength, wisdom and proper guidance from my guru who is still not visible to me. i also want my husband to join me in this path of spiritual wellbeing and realization. my earnest and sincere prayers for everything, especially to go beyond the superficial self. how to overcome that barrier? waiting with prayers,namaskarams to mathangs,
thanking you for everything,
geeta
om sri anjaneyaya namah
sri ram jaya ram jaya jaya ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
If you have full faith in Lord Hanuman, you have the quality to be His shishya. The Mathangs' Guru is Lord Hanuman. He comes to impart the supreme knowledge; the Brahma Gnan to their new generation every 41 years. Right from the beginning of His visit to the Mathangs, until the visit end, Every incidence which happens with Mathangs and every word spoken by Lord Hanuman is only and only for the purpose of imparting the Brahma Gnan. He first dismantles the structured beliefs of His shishyas and then imparts the divine knowledge. Follow these incidences and words by reading the chapters as we post here, you will also get the Brahma Gnan. One day you will get His Darshan too. It depends on the number of barriers which are there to be unlocked. It depends on the amount of impurities to be shed. Many devotees have written to us that they saw Lord Hanuman immediately after reading first chapter. It depends how many chapters it will take to break barriers of your mind and intellect.
Attachment with family members is also a big barrier. Attachment and Love are two different things. You can love your family and still be detached from them. You have no control over life of others including your brother and husband. They have their own history of Karmas. You have your own history of Karmas. When you "want" your husband to walk with you on the path of supreme, you are actually locking yourself in one more barrier of "want". Every soul has an independent relationship with the supreme soul of Lord Hanuman. Recognize and cherish that relation and walk in faith.
Blessings

570. How to pay tribute to my GOD

As i am student and i am totally dependent on my father i am studying and my father use to do so much pooja and Daan to Pandits. As i have read the chapters in Setu and they say that offering can be done in 108 hours and i want to offer to my LORD my own money which i will earn by my hard work so what to do please help me.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You can grow small flower plants in your home. Pluck those flowers and do the Arpanam in nearest temple.

Blessings

571. How to purify my soul so as to connect to the supreme soul of Lord Hanuman

Thank you Setuu. I really feel that after interacting with you people my soul must have come a bit close to the supreme soul of Lord Hanuman.

Continued from #31581(As per Setuu has spoken)
Ever since childhood I have been a devotee of Hanumanji. I want to surrender to Lord Hanuman. I really want to connect to the supreme soul of Lord Hanuman. I really want to purify my soul so that I can connect to the supreme soul of Hanumanji. I want to clear my vision so that I can connect to the almighty Hanuman.

Please guide me and show me the way to purify my soul and make my vision so clear that I can connect my soul to the supreme soul of Lord Hanuman.

Thank you.

Hanumanji, keep your blessings on me and my parents always and forgive all our sins which we may have done knowingly or unknowingly either in this birth or previous births.

Jai Bajrangbali. Jai Shree Ram.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Brahma Gnan is the only way to purify soul. Lord Hanuman came to Mathangs to give Brahma Gnan. If you read every incidence which happened during this visit and Every word spoken by Lord Hanuman, then you will also get the same Brahma Gnan which was imparted to Mathangs by Lord Hanuman. Make Lord Hanuman your Guru and read the chapters as we post them here. Next chapter will be posted soon.

Blessings

572. How to realise and utilize potential of the soul?

Lord Hanuman said in chapter 5 that

There are millions of devotees who want to have my Sakshat Darshan but they fail to get over their bodily desires. The most they do in their life is to utilize their body and mind to their full potential. They fail to even touch the potential of their souls. You have to realize and utilize potential of your soul.

How to realise and utilize potential of the soul?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

First you need to know your soul and then rise to the level of soul.

You can start by not shooting questions from top of your mind. Let the questions pierce your being and reach to the deep most level. Do not yearn for easy and ready-made answers. Let your queries create an unbearable anguish. Let your questions bore deep into the layers of illusions which are covering your soul.

Seeking supreme knowledge is not like sitting in a school or college exam. Do not post questions until they drill your being. There are 20 chapters deciphered now. There is plenty of knowledge to ponder upon. Bathe in that knowledge. An answer you get by yourself will be worth more than a thousand ready-made answers you tend to seek.

Blessings

573. how to remember all bad karma of life

jai shree hanuman
jaisa ki maine abhi padha ki ganga mata ke paas jaakar apne puraney sabhi karmo ko yaad karna chahiye aur ganga mata ko batana chahiye. Main yeh jaanna chahata hunn ki agar uss samay usse apne sabhi bure karma yaad nahin aayey. keval kuch hee yaad aaye toh kya hoga?

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

यहाँ पर गंगा माता के पास जाने का अर्थ उनकी देह अर्थात गंगा नदी के पास जाना नहीं है | इसका अर्थ है अपनी आत्मा को उनकी आत्मा के पास ले जाना |

जैसे आप किसी ऑफिस में जाते है तो अपना ID कार्ड गेट पर दिखाते हैं वैसे ही जब आपकी आत्मा गंगा जी के पास जाती है तो अपना परिचय देने के लिए अपने बुरे कर्म दिखाती है | जब आप गंगा जी के ध्यान में होंगे तब आपके दिमाग को उनके साथ हुए वार्तालाप का आभास तक नहीं होगा | आपकी आत्मा वार्तालाप करेगी |

|| राम ||

574. How to rise above mind-2

"Continued from #443626"

Thank you Setuu for the reply.

After going through all the chapters posted so far, I have got many things except "How to rise above mind". I have already made Lord Hanuman my guru and seeking knowledge(Brahm Gyan) from him through his Leela's. Now, how can I leave the path of seeking as told by you? I didn't get just one thing. Should I leave the path of seeking just for not understanding one thing?

You told me to remain on the path of devotion and surrender fully to the Lord. Here, I want to tell you that I am always on the path of devotion and have surrendered myself fully to Lord Hanuman. I don't know where I am exactly right now. I must say right now I have the feeling of suffering and joy. But it doesn't bother me much. I think whatever happens to me it's the will of Lord Hanuman and my karma of this birth and previous births are responsible for it. I have the feeling that Hanumanji is there to help me and when Hanumanji is with me nothing bad can happen to me. I don't know whether I am moving towards "Samras" or not.

Please help me and show me the right direction.

Please forgive me if I said anything wrong. I just wrote my views.

Thank you Setuu
Thank you Mathangs
Regards

Jai Hanuman
Jai Shree Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

There are two ways to reach God- (1) Knowledge (2) Devotion

If knowledge doesn't suit, one should go for devotion. Devotion towards God is different than commitment towards a Guru. In devotion, you will see God in everything and every phenomena.

After reading 5 chapters, all confusions will not settle but the level of question should certainly rise. Instead of asking "How should I rise above mind", you should give your point of view and elaborate it with examples of your life. Then only you are on the path of seeking knowledge.

Blessings

575. How to rise above mind-3

"Continued from 486328"

Thank you Setuu for the reply. But I didn't get all my answers and doubts cleared from your reply.

Let me ask you few questions. As you said there are two ways to reach God - Knowledge and Devotion. Do I need to follow only one out or two to reach God? Can't I follow both Knowledge and Devotion both to reach God. I am seeking knowledge from the leelas of lord Hanuman and as far as devotion is concerned, I am fully devoted to lord Hanuman. I have full faith in Hanumanji. Thus, I am following both the paths. Is it wrong?

Now comes how should I rise above mind. Truly speaking, here I am not very clear. I tried to get answer from your previous reply but I couldn't get much. You told to observe mind, observe intellect, observe the observer. I really didn't understand what actually to do. You also told that the peaceful region is above mind. So, I tried to move over there. But I am not able to reach that peaceful region fully. More I try to obstruct the thoughts, more potential they acquire.

I am not able to think peacefully on anything. So many thoughts come to my mind at the same time. There come positive thoughts too but most of the times there are negative thoughts. For example, let us suppose I am holding something in my hand. Then, a thought will come to my mind what if it falls from my hand. Let us take another example. Suppose someone or I am going to catch a train for some important work, then also it does come to my mind what if someone or I miss the train. What if someone or I meet with an accident? Even when I am doing Pooja, evil thoughts come to my mind. I try to ignore them. But again after sometime they come to my mind. I am not even able to do even pooja peacefully. There are numerous such examples.

Although so many negative thoughts come to mind but I never do anything negative. I always do what is right. That's why I really want to know why these negative thoughts come to my mind when I never do anything negative or wrong.

I really want my mind to be free from negative thoughts. I really want to concentrate on my aim without any deviation. I want my thoughts to be pure and positive.

Please show me the way. Please guide me. I really need your help.

Jai Bajrangbali. Jai Shree Ram.

Thank you Setuu. Thank you Mathangs.

Regards.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have read 7th chapter, you must have got the answer why evil thoughts come in your mind. It is because of Asurrahs who linger around your body. That is a result of many past Karmas. It will take time to purge all those Karmas. Sure way to get rid of Asurrahs one by one is DENIAL. Whenever an evil thought comes, deny the Asurrahs pleasure of experiencing fear through your body-mind. That means, resist the fear. You will get rid of them one by one.

Blessings

576. How should I practice the concept of "I am paramatma"?

Continued from 531907
Pranam on lord Hanuman's holy feet

Should I imagine the concept in this way " I am paramatma and all other living and non living things and the whole universe are my reflection .The person /animal/non-living thing infront of me is paramatma and I am his/her reflection."

But another person /animal/good and bad people/ universe(stars ,planets ,galaxies)are so different from me. Is this due to very high variation of my reflection?

Which is the mirror? Where is this mirror ?(in another belt of time?/ Is my body the mirror?) .Is it a typical mirror or any other thing that is called as mirror?

After I had read chapter 23 i am trying to practice this concept. It is helping me in this way---- whenever I become angry on someone or don't like their behaviour i think that "I am paramatma and he /she is my reflection" and I get relief from anger or just like the way he/she treated with me .
Is it right way practising the concept? If not then please show me the path.

Whatever enlightenment/supreme knowledge we achieve in each birth,does it get stored? Like suppose there are 100 types of supreme knowledge. Let i have achieve 5 types in one birth .so in next birth will these 5 types will get stored and I can achieve other types except these 5 types OR i have to achieve again these 5 types and then continue?

NOW THESE QUESTIONS ARE IRRITATING MY MIND(this happens to all of us when unable to find answers of our questions)
PLEASE SIR GIVE REPLY (if possible soon) TO MY QUESTIONS

PLEASE FORGIVE MY IGNORANCE.
PRANAM

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

"I am Paramatma and my body as well as bodies of people around me are my reflections." This is correct.

Lord Ram encountered a lion and thought that how could lion be my reflection. Yes, the lion is very high variation of my reflection.

If you can find a mirror, that mirror is also the reflection of Paramatma. That is not the mirror where Paramatma is reflected. That mirror is just another reflection.

Your thoughts about '100 types of knowledge' are in wrong direction. Think this way: Suppose there is a monk who has attained all types of knowledge you could possibly think, why can't your soul enter into the body of that monk?

Blessings

577. How Soul chosses which body to pursue?

My query is how soul chooses in which body to pursue his/ her journey?
It do not always choose a healthy body otherwise there will be no persons with special abilities?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have read the chapters sincerely, you must have read that the soul travels in the coordinates of desire and Karma just like body travels in coordinates of Time-Space. At any point, what is the Karma and Desire coordinate of soul, determines the body and the experiences of the soul.

Blessings

578. How to stay away or get awareness of surrah and assurah?

Gratitude setuu..
lord guru hanuman ji ko koti koti pranam...

I have confusion about my body regarding who is controlling myself..

If i am on back seat who is driving myself .
Who is making desires, is it my soul or surrah and if one of them is responsible for it then how ?

If i have desire who is filfulling it ?

How to distinguish between my soul or surrah or assurah?

If i want to myself away from surrah or assurah , what is the procedure?

If i do not make any desire just eat drink or sleep other personal work ,are these desire mine (soul)or surrah or assurah ??

bless my soul and remove confusion .

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you are vulnerable to the trap of space-time, you are vulnerable to Surrahs-Asurrahs. If you are aware that space-time is playing an illusion before you, then Surrahs-Asurrahs cannot affect you. This awareness comes from supreme knowledge.

Sometime Sanskaras also may help in recognizing Surrahs-Asurrahs. But that is not the fool-proof way. When you do something, think whether what you have done is as per your Sanskaras. If you have done something which is not in your Sanskara, then some Asurrah or Surrah has influenced your action. But if a Asurrah or Surrah takes over your Sanskara, then this method won't work. You are a "good" soul. Therefore your Sanskara is not captured by any Asurrah. It may be under influence of Surrahs though. So, you can recognize Asurrahs but you may not recognize Surrahs. Higher knowledge is the only fool-proof way.

Blessings

579. how will the state of Moksha be in real life

can anybody explain the state of moksha, just to say wil l i still be I or will i achieve one all -where in i really cant experience anything, is not experiencing anything moksha, if so will there be separate energy entity for it or how is it

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Moksha is not a state, neither is it state-less-ness. It is when you completely melt your identity and merge with the whole. When you are not there, how can there be a state? Think on these lines and you will realize the truth.

Blessings

580. A hug through Vayu by my dearest Vayu Putra

I am a devotee of Lord Hanuman. Right from my Childhood I have been in love with my LORD. Near my house is a popular hanuman temple on a mountain. Once during one of my visits when i stepped in, I saw the lord beautifully decorated. I closed my hands in avahan mudra and prayed.. Lord you were lucky to hug your Rama. When will i be lucky to get a hug from you? Just then a strong breeze engulfed me from front as though it came right from the idol inside. There are no windows or entrances in front. But where did this wind come from? I felt as though the Lord heard my prayer and he in the form of Vayu he himself came and hugged me. It may sound silly for many... but for me it was my Lords way of responding to my prayer. Another experience, Last week when i was sick my body woud shiver uncontrollably in the middle of the night. I would just recollect Lord Hanuman's face and start chanting Ram...within 3 times of chanting my shivering would stop. What Love of my LORD!
JAi Sri Ram!

581. HUM LOG APNI ATMA KA ANUBHAV KAISE KAR SAKTE HAIN

MAIN JAB BHI PRABHU KI ARADHANA KARTA HUN, MERA MAN HAMESHA SANSARIK CHINTAO MAIN, ACHCHE BURE, ATYANT BURE BICHARON ME BHATAK JATA HAI. APNE MAN KO OR MASTISHK KO PRABHU KE ANEK ROOPO ME KENDRIT KARNE KI KOSHISH KARTA HUN , KABHI SHIV KE ROOP ME, KABHI MAA KE ROOP ME, LEKIN SAFAL NAHI HOTA. MERE PRABHU TO BAHUT DAYALU HAMSHA MERI GALTIYO IGNORE KAR DETE HAIN. LEKIN ME APRADH BODH SE GIRAST REHTA HUN.
KIYA KARU JO MERA MAN PRABHU KE KISI ROOP ME EKAGR HO JAYE? MUJHE AISA ANUBHAV HOTA HAI KI MERA MAN IS PRASHN KA UTTAR DE SAKTA, HAI. ABHI BHI AISA HI LAG RAHA HAI, LEKIN JABAB BAHAR NAHI AATA. PRABHU NE MERI ULJHAN SAMAJH LI HOGI, VO AAPKE MADHYAM SE JABAB DENGE. "JAI SHREE RAM" JAI SHREE HANUMAN"
continued from #410493
MERE PRABHU SHREE HANUMAN JI KO SAT SAT NAMAN OR MERI SANKAON KE SAMBAHND MAIN UPAY BATANE KE LIYE BHI SAT SAT NAMAN/
MAN KO KENDRIT KARNE KE LIYE KIYA KARNA CHAHIY

Setu Speaks: 
आप मन को केन्द्रित करने की बजाये नियंत्रित करने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं | आपको सिर्फ मन से ऊपर उठकर आत्मा की ओर बढ़ना है | धरती को छोड़कर वृक्ष पर चढ़ा जाता है, आप धरती को वृक्ष पर चढाने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं |


582. hum parmatma ansh kis prakar sey ling ki tarango mein badlav karein

Jai shree hanuman.
Mera prashan yeh hai ki, jaise 13 th chapter mein yeh ek vishesh rahasyamayi khulasa hua ki ek rishi ney aur unke 1 shishya ney ling par adhyan kiya. hum parmatma ke ansh yeh janna chahatey hai ki kis prakar sey hum swayam apne ling ki tarango mein badlav kar saktey hai ya unhe bana saktey hai ya mita saktey hai.

Setu Speaks: 
आप केवल अपने कर्मों से अपने लिंग में बदलाव ला सकते हैं | लिंग में सीधा बदलाव लाने का रहस्य केवल सिद्ध पुरुष जानते हैं जो कलियुग में अगर हैं भी तो उन्हें लिंग शास्त्र के प्रयोग की इजाजत नहीं है | हनुमान जी लिंग शास्त्र का प्रयोग तभी करते हैं जब भगवान् विष्णु की आज्ञा होती है |

|| राम ||

584. Human Form

Thank you so much for my earlier question.I need to know some more.Is soul receive human form after doing some good deeds.and what was my earlier birth.Presently I'm not married and even after so much effort unable to find someone due to this there is so much of tension in my family.please tell me and suggest me the suitable path.
Thank you

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Experiences of past are a baggage too heavy that it has shadowed the real you. It has changed your perspective of this world completely. Rebuild your self esteem and rediscover the beauty in the world. Meanwhile Lord Hanuman is working with Lord Indra to fulfill your desires.

Blessings


585. Humble gratitude for this living master

I am offering my humble prayers to lord hanuman since long time and is graced by his presence always. His blessed prayers have powers of manifesting anything materialistic and non materialistic. His mere recitation of name can do severe miracles even in worldly matters. I wish to be with hanuman grace all the time. I wish lord hanuman gives us strength and wisdom to overcome all odds in all the births.

Query to Mathangs:

Will I get salvation with grace of lord hanuman in this birth? Also what are the plans for lord hanuman for people having religion Hinduism who used to perform tough austerities. How feasible can it be for worldly persons to get salvation while living worldly life?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Sometimes worldly life can become a boon for the soul. Only the first spark is needed in householder's life. Unfortunately they get that first spark only when some bad things happen in their life. Once the spark is there and he/she starts questioning the existence, then it doesn't matter whether one is in worldly life or not. Worldly life can also become Sadhana. You only need to realize that you are not a body. You are a soul. Then let the body do worldly things. You can remain detached from those activities. You can remain detached from things done by your body and thoughts flowing in your mind. Once you reach that stage, you can have Sakshat Darshan of Lord Hanuman. He will guide you further.

Blessings


586. hurt

how to overcome hurt? how to become pure? how to reach god? i have some barrier. please help me overcome. i've lost all the goodness and love. please help me. how to help my husband and children?please guide me.sriram jairam jai jai ram om sri anjaneyaya namah.
how to, most importantly, forgive and forget, when people have hurt me badly? how to help my brother?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Congratulations for realizing the barrier. Majority of human beings live with barriers for their entire life but you have at least realized it. So the "hurt" has done its work. Now it is up to you if you want a patch to cover your hurt and then go back to your normal life. Or you want to smile over the hurt and try to find "Who is Really Hurt?". It is not you who is hurt. You are a divine soul, how come you be hurt? It is actually a "superficial self" which is hurt. Majority of people live with this superficial self. You are on the verge of identifying this superficial self and then the journey starts. To reach God, make Lord Hanuman your Guru. Lord Hanuman comes to Mathangs to tell them the way to reach Ram. If you follow this conversation, you will definitely reach God. Read the chapters of this conversation between Mathangs and Lord Hanuman as we post them. Second chapter will be posted shortly.

Blessings


587. I am better than before

I had very bad times in past but by the grace of lord i am now in better situations. I am really heartliy thankful to my helping hands. I do not know but i am bold with postivity around me. I am sure lord Hanuman dada is only one who was with me in my bad times. But please do not leave me. I want your warmth and protection from sins. Also i want you to magically separate me from my body. And take me to supreme happiness of abode of supreme lord.i had experienced that truth and joy.yes there was only joy and light and i do not know what was that. But it was only joy.no sorrow only joy. I was not in my body. I do not know. I want to enjoy freedom. I want to fly like that experience. What was that? How can i explain in words? It was only light.light and light.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

That cannot be explained in words.

Blessings


588. i am bit confused regarding my dreams

!!Jai Shri Ram!!
!!Jai hanuman ji!!

Respected setuu masters

Kindly guide me as i am bit confused regarding my dreams.i am frequently dreaming of hanuman ji,and two days before i had dream in which there was a saint organising for some kind of pooja,and somebody was chanting "jai shri ram".when the person chanting "jai shri ram",my soul was experiencing strange feeling,i was feeling like my soul was flying out of my body.The person was chanting "jai shri ram" was not clearly visible to me but i was sure in my dream that he was my guru hanuman ji.The dream was like real but it was a dream.my mind is not able to bear such dreams.Plz settle my mind with your divine words.ll

"Jai shri ram".

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

We advise devotees not to try to do postmortem of dreams. If it is a good dream and you do postmortem, you may waste an opportunity to realize that dream in real world. If it is a bad dream and you do postmortem of it, you recycle your bad desires which may result in a bad reality next time.

Do not try to understand dreams. Just let them be,

Blessings


589. I am confused.

I love Lord and His devotees. I was under the umbrella of The Lord in my childhood and since I stooped to a prey to my "Vasanas" I lost the grace of The Lord. Now my life is so lost and I want to come back to the loving abode of the Grace of The Lord. I know I have some divine mysteries associated with my past birth. I also love my parents and I feel that there is some divinity and some secret associated with them.
How do I find the answers to my questions and what should I do now. I tried to leave this world, I am not able to leave it. I want to know how should I live in this world as per the guidance of Lord Vishnu and how can I surrender to His devotees.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Read the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas. There is no need to leave your world.

Blessings

590. I am interested and I want to meet the hanumanji saxat

I visited your site. Reference of internet surfing. In fact, I am great believer of hindu traditions, religion and lords. I am really impressed by your site. I just created my account to read the adhyays which are said by the lord hanumanji to the matangs. I just completed first adhyay. But I am confused that what I do next ?. How can I give my arpan . And whrn and how I can meet the hanumanji.. please guide me.please reply me in between next 108 hours. I am very very very much interested to meet the hanumanji saxat.
It is my humble request to you...

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Arpanam can be done in any Hanuman temple where Vaanars are present. Fruits Arpanam is preferred.

To have Sakshat Darshan of Lord Hanuman, you have two options :

(1) Come to Setuu Hanuman Bodhi and do Sadhana under guidance of Setuu Masters. You need to be free from worldly responsibilities and you need to devote at least 1 year for Sadhana initially (Depending on how evolved you are, spiritually). If you want to do Sadhana, write about yourself in detail. Write about your family, your soul's history of relationship with Lord Hanuman and any experience/dream you had recently where you saw Lord Hanuman. Tell about that dream/experience in detail. Also tell about the knowledge you acquired by reading chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas posted here so that Setuu masters can get an impression of your soul.

(2) Or you can duly read the Leelas of Lord Hanuman being posted here. You will get the 36 line long Mantra when all the chapters are posted here and read by you. By reciting that Mantra, a devotee can have Sakshat Darshan of Lord Hanuman.

Blessings


591. I am live due to Hanuman Ji only.

I was injured in the age of around 4-5 years in 1984/85 and my breathes stops at hospital in the Meerut city.Then in the morning time around 4.30 am Hanuman je appeared in the dreams of my father and asked him for not to consumed the wine and meat and also to offer Sindur and Chola in his temple.But my father told the God he will trust only then if I will speak by myself.Then I asked my father to pass the urine.And by the Gau mutra my treatment was done. And as on today I am 35 years old and having two children by God blessings.

Regards

Aftab Singh

592. I am lucky I read hanuman lilas

Thanks baba Mathang for sharing all the lila of lord Hanuman to us .now I got alot faith in god .after reading all of them chapter I totally faith that he is immortal nd living this yug in kalyug .
But I have question when lord vishnu take birth as a kalki??

593. I AM NOT HAVING PEACE IN MY LIFE

After finishing my work means I am working in factory after working hours I will go to home I don,t get peace, I f I saw my husband I will get angry, I do not want to see his face, I donot want listen what he will speak, why it is happening I am not understand, he is not co operating person in all the way, so I feel lonely less little bit,because my childrens are their, so I don,t mind, in the factory I don,t have close friends, my character is easily mingal but then also I have so many enemies, I want people should like me, but some people hates me more.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Forgiveness and Gratitude are solution of your problems. Forgive everyone around you no matter what they have done to you and what they say. Find out what is good happening in your life and have gratitude for the same.

Blessings


594. I am very eager to know the birth of lord Vishnu's Next Avatar

Hi,
Please let me know when will you decipher chapter that details about Kalki Avtar. I am really exicted to know vishnu's next avatar. These days I have strong feeling that kaliyug is nearing the end. Since i can't see people suffer for more years with injustice or corruption or murder of inncoents or droughts or no much rain earlier, I pray vishnu god to come soon to the earth.

one more question, whenver I talk about hindu gods and tradition, practises,belifes. Many others have commented that why other religion in the world do not have all these? for example diffrent avatar of vishnu, or why vishnu avatar is happening only in India? why not UK or US or Japan? Vishnu is only for Hundus? not for other religion people in the world?

Kindly answer my query, pls atleast let me know vishnu has already taken a birth or yet to take a birth? how many more years to end thi kaliyug?

Thanks in advance,
Raghu

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

We cannot speculate. There are signs and hints in the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas. As soon as we confirm, we will publicly post the details. This world is already full of confusions and speculations. We do not want to contribute to the confusion. We will only publish the definite details as soon as we get them. Right now we cannot tell when we will get them.

Lord Vishnu is not India specific. It is not necessary that He takes birth in Asia. He can take birth in Europe or any other continent also.

Blessings


595. i believe in god.

Some peoples in this world dont belive in god. They stic to the science. But beyond science there is some power. 18 years back i was in such physical condition and i couldnt get proper medicine. According to science nothing was wrong with me. But i was feeling something odd. Only strong devotees of sree hanuman, sree gurudev datta and some saints without toching me told me the truth. There was no way out. I was still trying. I must have commited lot of sin.

When god blesses u.you get started proper medicines to come out any disease. This is applicable to any situation to come out in the life.


596. I BELIEVE HANUMAN JI

MY HUSBAND WAS IN DEATH BED IN 2006 DUE TO AN ROAD ACCIDENT AND I WAS PREGNANT . HE WENT TO COMMA . DOCTOR GAVE 72 HRS AND THAT TIME MY MAIN MANTRA WAS JAI HANUMAN GAYAN GUN SAGAR------------DAY AND NIGHT I PRAYED AND AFTER 48 HRS MIRACLES HAPPENED. HE GOT BACK TO SENSE SLOWLY.I THINK GOD'S POWER IS TO BE REALIZED BY ALL. AND HAS TO BE APPRECIATED THROUGH OUT. I BELIEVE HIM A LOT. FOR ANY CRISIS HE HELPS ME NOW ALSO ALTHE TIME WHEN EVER I RECALL HIM. NO DOUBT ABOUT IT THAT HIS PRESENCE IS EVERY WHERE., JAI HANUMANJI

597. I don't know

I don't know whether a layer of ignorance and dirt has been removed or not. I do want to make an arpanam. i'll describe what I felt. After reading the chapter, for a while I was thoughtful. Then I sang a bhajan and felt like crying. Then I had my bath and did puja, offering flowers. Tomorrow I'll be going to Hanuman temple for a puja and want to offer fruits. in my mind I offered fruits to a monkey who comes here sometimes. A banana and apples. This was my experience immediately after reading the chapter. While doing my regular puja, I meditated on Sri Hanuman and Sriram and offered flowers to Shiva, Vishnu and Devi as well. i need further guidance. Om Namah Shivaya. Jai SriRam, Jai Anjaneya!

Then I had a doubt. As a mother I want my children to lead a good life. I should be able to provide what they need for education etc. Is that an unfair wish or a desire? I don't think I can avoid that. I have to be with them as a support, I feel. is that wrong? sriram Jairam Jaijairam. Pranams to all there. Prostrations to Hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

That is not an unfair desire. You should fulfill your duties and family responsibilities with a sense of detachment. When detachment appears, pure love evolves.

Blessings


598. I dont know why but i dont feel something tumbling out of me when i read chapters

Jai shree ram! I want to know why i dont feel lighter after reading chapters. I feel i have gained knowledge. Is thinking that i have gained knowledge wrong. Why dont i feel lighter. Please help me get an answer to it hanuman dada. Happy birthday dada

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Suppose you have fallen into a deep well. People who are trying to get you out of the well send two things down - (1) Some food and water so that you can get energy (2) A rope. Rope is supposed to take you out of the well. But you keep both food and rope inside and say, "I am happy. I have got food to eat. I want to stay in the well itself."

This is what we are. We are fallen into a well called mind. The supreme knowledge sends you something to feed the mind and a rope to take you out of the boundaries of mind. Being a householder living in a mainstream society, it is understandable that you are finding it difficult to transcend your mind.

You should have an urge to reach to the supreme truth. You should not be comfortable in the boundaries of time. Then only this supreme knowledge will bring you on the path of Moksha.

Blessings


599. i have a mixed state of mind.

jai hanuman before i start anything.

i want to know it from mathangs that why is that i always remember the bad in people and not the good they have done. whenever i meet a person for the first time i feel so glad about them and later as time passes i always feel more negatives about them and not positive. i am selfish at some things like i dont want anyone to get above me in my career but i have a very humble heart towards animals and people suffering. when i see a animal suffering i cant tolerate and also when i see a child or a old person begging and being ignored by people i just get angry and will try helping them. why is that i am in a mixed state? how can i cure my soul from selfishness and other evil. And one more thing is my mind never sticks to one things. when i love some work and start doing it and suddenly change my interest to something else and will go for it leaving the old one and due to this i am unable to gain full knowledge in anything. can you tell me what exactly is happening with me. but while reading chapters my bold really went cold and my heart beat rose at certain levels of the story. please answer and suggest me what best i can do. thankyou very much Setuu for connecting people with the almighty anjeneya swamy. and if you could personally forward my blessings to lord anjeneya through mathans i have a small request, my father fells ill frequently and he is been facing problems in the matter of health as well as money. he has struggled a lot in his life so far i want to see him happy from now onwards. this one wish of mine is not being addressed by god dont know for what reason. he has been with me in all my tough times and gave me lot of success but i pray lord hanuman to bless my dad and mom with lot of happiness through out their life.

my humble request is kindly answer my questions. thankyou jai sri ram jai hanuman

Setu Speaks: 
Ram.

This stream of thoughts were taken up in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja of 1st November 2014, Saturday.

Every person has his/her own nature. Instead of feeling guilty about your nature, you should realize that you are unique in this world. Your behavior is alright as long as you are aware of what you are doing. Awareness is most crucial thing which you already have. You should come out of guilty consciousness.

Instead of getting influenced from everything you come across, you should define a set of rule to live life. and then you should live life according to those rules.

For example, suppose your rule is- "I will live my life to achieve goals defined by me time to time. If need be, I would change myself in order to be eligible person to achieve those goals. If situation demands, I will change my goals."

Then suppose a situation comes when you do not see any way forward. At the end, you have to change your way. At that juncture, you cannot sit and think- "oh, I am changing my way. See, how weak a person I am."

Instead you should think- "It is within the set of rules of my life that if a roadblock comes, and no way is left, I will change my way. Hence I am not weak. I am living my life as per my rules and this change of way is within those rules."

----

Prayer was initiated for your father.

-----


600. i have no experience abt lyf this is my reality?

i m agree with u..nd i hope u will understand me also..plzz m bchpn se hi god ko manti ayi hu..un mhsus bhe kiya h or bus un swaplok m dheka h... m yha jo bhe write kr rhi hu wo pura sincerly hi mane likha h..jb mane hanuman ji k chapters padhe i m very happy ki muje hanuman ji k bare m janne ko or mila..i now es world m hr chizo m lines h ro yha bhe hongi..lekin bchpn se aj tk m puri bato tk nai puch payi hu or muje etna vishwas jrur h ki m es rashay tk ek din jrur pochungi...i m very thankful ro setus nd matng baba's... but muje ye h ki what is reality....that' s all my question.
and next tym i aware ki questions only chptrs m se hi kru thanku so much........

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मा,

हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के अध्याय पढ़िए और परम सत्य की ओर पढ़िए | परम सत्य को शब्दों में बयान नहीं किया जा सकता | जब आप सत्य तक पहुंचेंगे तो आपको वह दिव्य अनुभव होगा जो सभी सांसारिक अनुभवों से आपका मोह भंग कर देगा और आप मोक्ष की ओर अग्रसर होंगी |

|| राम ||


601. i have scored good marks in my online examination

i have scored good marks in hardware and networking course before a day of examination i have chanted lord rama's name and chanted hanuman chalisa 11 times and bajrang baan 6 times and after next day i gone to give my online examination i score very easily good marks that is my only experience of this

602. I Love Rama Baktha Hanuman Ji Jai Shree Rama Rama

I felt the divine purpose of that story and my illusion is so strong I only pray lord hanuman to destroy my illusion and give me Moksha

603. I met two hanumanaji in dream. Small hanumanaji and big hanumanaji at a one time in Dream. If sadhak feels to roam in swargloak vishnuloak patalloak in deep medition then what is true.Is sadhak really visits to that loka or just is it imagination.

scientist proved and says our brain is responcible for creation of dream.out of body experiance. Ghost .loklokantar swarg patal loak parallel universe are created by our brain. I have asked you that if our brain creates dream word and out of body experiances to roam in swarg and patalloak then how ones soul can go to swarglok patalloak .is it our just imagination of brain or true condition .I met two hanumanaji at a one time in dream .Is it just imagination of my brain during dream and sleep or is it true.please tell me what is true. In deep medition sadhak feels that he is leaving body and going to roam vishnuloaka patalloaka .then what is true acording to science that stages are created by our midbrain imagination cells.means that word is not exists just it is brain imaginations.some psychitik patients feels another word due to chemical imbalance of brain.if some person has taken higher druas then he has also feeling of that word is moving around him.he may see ten faces of frontstanding man duetobrain.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

There are two separate things : (1) The experience (2) Explanation of the experience.

Explanation is sought by mind while experience by the soul. Your soul experiences other worlds and then your mind tries to explain it in its limits. If a write goes to visit Paris and write about his experience in a book, it does not mean that Paris exists only in that book. It means that he has gone to Paris and written the experience in book. Similarly, your mind can found a thousand ways to describe the experiences of soul. Don't dwell in explanations, go for experiences.

Blessings


604. I need clarity in life

Jai Shree Ram.
I have been divorced for almost 2 years now. I had agree for divorce due to certain issues though internally I never wanted to separate from my husband whom I dearly love till this moment. No second in the day passes when I dont think about him or miss him. The memories haunt me badly. Though it has been more than 2 years since everything ended and we have not been in contact but something inside me still says that we are meant to be together and one day we will reunite. What should I perceive from this inner voice? My family is after me to marry again but I can't. My mind and soul dont permit for the same. I can't think of anyone in place of my ex husband. Please help me.

Setu Speaks: 
Have you read Chapter 2 of Immortal Talks- Book 1? It tells about the mathematics of Karma.

If this attachment to your ex-husband is one-sided, you are doing immense harm to yourself and your family. Every soul has bad Karma and because of one-sided attachment you are taking on your husband's Karma on yourself thereby creating more and more suffering for yourself.

So, if it is a one-sided attachment, earlier you let go of him, is better. Marry again only and only when you've let go of this one-sided attachment otherwise the new companion and his family will also suffer due to this one-sided attachment.

605. I need help !

Due to my foolish behaviour, I am in trouble. I need urgent help from Hanumanji !
I know that he knows my weakness and mistakes all along, which warned me time and again, but I did not understand and have done a huge mistake.

I am reading Shiv Raksha Stotra every day, as much as I can.

Am I on the right path ? Please request Mahabali Hanumanji to guide me.

I am sure he is my saviour and Guru !

with sashtang pranams,

your bhakta & desciple,

Smita

606. I never believed on god

I exprience lot of negative things in human world that i stop believings on god. That they exist in this cruel world where human for his all selfisness can do anything. Since i m a girl, everyone treating me with different percepective. No one asked my dreams.,my happiness but everyone decide it on my behalf. Partiality always keep me questioning on my mind why god made that type of world where boys can do any good or bad thing bt no one blame bt if girl step out from her home every one questioning on her character.my heart is always true with myself nd i think same good thing with nearby people. But whenever i intract with someone people never want to intract with my soul and heart bt they want my body.
But now after reading all the chapters i start beliving on god. I can now understand whatever god give us a exprience to learn on different kind of illusion that we always think a real kind bt actually thats a illusion. After reading all the chapters lot of answer i get which i always wanted.

607. I really want to meet lord hanumandada

Once i meet lord hanuman dada i will ask him what to do in life. Right now i am thinking as lord rama is archetype. As he obeyed his parents i also do. I go to office and do dinural actovoties. But after i meet lord hanumandada he will take me to cold mountains and will teach me meditation. I will do penance with him. Lord will enjoin me to leave sinful ways and will pious my soul like lord rama and shivaji soul. I will perform activities driven by lord hanumandada. I know i am sinful so he is not appearing in front of me.but one day i will get my sins cut by lord hanuman dada and i will also leave this body and will be freed to roam with shri bhagwan.

Setu Speaks: 
||Ram||

608. I request you to ask lord hanuman on my behalf

Pranam Setu Sant ji,

I am doing my best to follow your instructions guruji.I am trying my best to divert my mind for adoption but still I am lost. please dont get upset with
my words as I dont mean to irritate you.I am daily speaking to lord Hanuman but
unable to get any response. I have read in "query" section that "lord vishnu has given human beings capacity to change our destinyby doing "karma" is it true?.

day by day I am becoming a "LONER",is it normal? I am losing interest in friends,relative etc. Earlier I use to be a very friendly person but not now. guruji I stay at home whole day alone.I dont have any job to keep myself busy.I have already mentioned in my earlier email that for last 10 years
i have done only 2 things "struggled to get job" and than "trying to stay in job" but at last I failed,may be gods wish.Before my marriage I prayed & struggled
for education and job,after marriage for kid but got nothing at the end.I will never be praying for anything in life as i have understood one very hard thing that no matter how we pray only our karma & destiny rules.

My father is lord hanuman devotee since long time but everyone pities his life.he never complains but everyone questions his bhakti towards lord.two of his daughters are issue less (myself 1st one) & younger one still unmarried.

I saw lord hanuman in my dreams(I saw him after reading chapter 13) but unable to understand it so have come to you for advice.I am at home trying to do reading,
chanting ram nam but still feel disturbed/confused.I dont find interest in any work,people,what should I do? nowadays my health has also deteriorated in spite of doing yoga etc.blood reports are normal but I dont know where is the problem. LOrd hanuman I dont doubt your capability but even I am a common human being who can get lost.my future looks blank,will I do only eating.sleeping,idling. will this be my life than in what way I am different from animals? Please lord hanuman guide me or show me some way before i get insane.

guruji I request you to ask lord hanuman on my behalf (as elders say that god listens to everyone but he can never deny his messengers prayers & you "MA-TANGS" are his messengers) this question in "sakshat puja". He has to answer my question.

Pranam

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Prayer does help. It helps a lot. But the prayer cannot be done by the body or mind. You are a free entity. You can come to level of body, mind or stay at higher levels of Chitt and Soul. Most human beings live at the level of body and mind. When you fear about your future, worry about circumstances etc., you are at the level of body-mind. At that level, you cannot do prayer. At that level, you express only fear and lower desires. Those desires are heard by Lord Indra, not the higher Gods. If you want to communicate with Lord Hanuman or other Gods who live in the realm of soul, you have to rise to the level of soul.

There can be many ways to rise to the level of soul. Some people can rise simply by chanting 'Ram', or any other Mantra. Or you can read a chapter of Lord Hanuman's Leelas to rise to the level of soul. When you try to express at the level of soul, you never express your fear. You will just remain silent. Only words which may come out of your mouth would be 'Hey Ram' or 'Om'. You will never express your materialistic desire at that level. When your soul connects with the supreme, prayer automatically happens. And that prayer does bear materialistic fruits also. At that level the soul expresses desire of Mukti. And to fulfill that desire, Gods have to settle down your worldly conflicts first. So they work to either settle down your worldly conflicts or design them so as to give you lessons.

Also, find a higher purpose in life. Materialistic desires get fulfilled when you are not desperate for them. Let your actions be driven by the higher purpose. Your higher purpose could simply be "to find happiness in every moment'. Take it like a game. You have a puzzle of life in front of you and you have to locate happiness in there. Find reasons to be happy in every moment.

Solitude is good but not loneliness. If you have disconnected from people to avoid their reactions, that is not good. Meet people just for the sake of testing your spiritual evolution. If somebody shows pity at you, just see if it hurt you. Then rise above that hurt. Witness how you respond to people. Just imagine yourself having a basket in which you are collecting experiences. Imagine experiences as flowers. There are different kind of flowers. Keep collecting them. 'Somebody showed pity at me' (put it in the basket), Somebody jeered at me (put it in basket), Somebody talked about me behind my back (put it in basket).

You have a choice- you can either get crashed by the circumstances or use them as steps towards spiritual evolution.

Blessings

609. I saw Lord Hanuman in form of a cloud.

First of all thank you setuu group for making us all know more about Lord Hanuman. And also my pranams to Mathangs.
I got Lord Hanuman's divine darshan in the form a cloud. That day was saturday and I was on my way from Gnana Saraswati Temple in Basara,Telangana to Hyderabad by train. It was evening and was feeling uneasy that I did not go to Hanuman temple that day being saturday. I was just feeling uncomfortable at that time due to this. But to my surprise wen I looked toward the sky, I could see a cloud in the form of Lord Hanuman sleeping sideways facing towards me and with his both hands between his legs. And his tail could be seen in the form of cloud. I was completely shocked to see that. But I did not understand, why did he not give darshan in the usual way i.e as if he is blessing his devotee. Why in the sleeping form. I wanted to ask this to any one who can tell me why. After that wen I went back home, my aunt how had come to visit hyd had just went to hanuman temple and got orange kumkum which is given in Hanuman temple and she applied the kumkum on my forehead. It was completely a shocking xp. Please ask the mathangs what does the sleeping hanuman mean.

Thank you for the post.

610. I saw Lord Shiva

Dear Mataang friends
One day I was sleeping , what happened I don't know , I became awake and in kind of trans I saw Lord Shiva and then went back to sleep automatically. Please let me understand what happened since it was neither day dream nor night dream...nor I was praying to Lord Shiva. Yes I do pray to Lord Hanuman everyday.
Also convey my prayers to Lord Hanuman in Shakshat Hanuman Puja and please inform him that I am not well after I lost my mother. Even my father is also not well.
Please pray for the wellbeing of my son, my father and my wife. Also I want to get my mother back...may her passing away be like a bad illusion like chapter 1.
Pranam.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When your soul connects with Lord Hanuman, it automatically connects with Lord Shiva because Lord Hanuman and Lord Shiva are close to each other. Lord Shiva was trying to destruct sharpness of your memories which you are holding onto. Those sharp memories are creating obstruction in next birth of your mother's souls. Do not think further about your dreams. Let the divine powers do their work.

Blessings

611. i think he was here

I don't know whether it is coincidence or imagination or whether it is real. This happened earlier too. Today morning when i did my pooja, i thought of hanuman as usual, but a little differently and offered flowers. I wondered why there was no mails from setu. When I checked the mail, there was nothing again. I wondered why. In the afternoon I read the ramayan which was stopped for a few days due to a death in the family, followed by the story of hanuman's quest for sita in Lanka. In the evening, something made me go to the pooja room again. I sat there and repeated hanuman chalisa. I felt like meditating for a while. I chanted the manthra ( which got corrected today) and remained there for a short while.I felt a gentle presence. I wondered if hanuman was there then. I couldn't see him for obvious reasons, I understand. Then I thought may be I was imagining. I did not feel like leaving the place but had to for the duties at home. The thought of your mail kept coming. And just now I got it. Are you here? As you are there everywhere, you are. But I want to know ,did you come to me? Am I sensing right? I started my pooja and reading of the ramayan along with devi pooja etc from the new moon day onwards. I was feeling very heavy for the past two days. Now, after reading the fifth chapter, I am feeling a bit relieved. If I have sensed you, anjaneya, I am blessed. Do tell me and make me ready to really see you. Jai hanuman. jai sriram. prostrations and pranams! Pranams to setu masters and sarangs. Hope I am able to see your leela on the 4th. Hope my arpanam reaches you.Sri gurubhyo namah.My pooja continues till the 4th and want to visit a temple. Raam Raam Raam. jai sri Anjaneya.

612. I want to do Sadhna; How should I convince my parents

Pranam Mathangs & Setuu masters

I'm 20 year old kid and I have failed in b.tech &messed up with my life
iam free for one year and recently on Feb 2016 I came to know about Setuu Hanuman website and its stories
When iam reading the stories I just want to run away and come to srilanka near you and have penance in Setuu Hanuman bodhi

But I have parents brothers and relations
Whenever I want to come near you these relations stop me and and when I read Setuu Hanuman stories I just want to run away to setuu Hanuman bodhi

But when I mingle with my routein activities in my daily life Maya catches me
I know that iam in a illusion

Some force pulls me back and says this is real for example a movie or a relative or a neighbour kid or something else deviates me from spiritual path

How many time I say to me that this world is not real and illusion also
This is just a dream not real also
I get anger and iam attached to sense pleasures
I get addicted to tv, movies, and some nonsense
Maya catches me and I can't come out of this illusion

Just I want to come to srilanka and be in Setuu Hanuman bodhi to get this illusion

But I do not know how to convince my parents and my grand mother (she is next mother to me)

They will always why are you always talking like a monk?
You have failed in b.tech now do a degree
And get some job enjoy your life

if I run away to setuu Hanuman bodhi without informing they will be in grief and search for me

I want to leave all attachments

I don't how to convince them

Please tell me how to convince them and come to you

Please waiting for your answer

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Illusion or Maya works in very sophisticated ways.

To engage a monkey into illusion, Maya has to conjure up just a banana.

To engage an ordinary human being into illusion, Maya just has to conjure gold. An ordinary human being would run after gold much to the delight of Maya.

If a person is already rich, Maya just have to create some trouble or worry in their life to keep them engaged.

Suppose a person is broke to the extent that he has given up on everything. Maya fails to engage him in illusion because he is done with everything. Then what will Maya do? It will acquire most stealth approach. It will conjure up an idea of 'spirituality' inside the mind of its target. The target will get attached to an illusion called 'spirituality'. He would think that he is into spirituality, but actually he would be into an illusion of spirituality created by Maya.

You are at this stage. Don't play into the hands of Maya. You cannot get supreme knowledge by running away from your current circumstances. There is a huge difference between 'running away' and 'detaching away'. When you run away from something, you get even more attached to it. You are not eligible for Sadhana until you are at peace with your present. And peace doesn't lie in running away from noise. It lies amidst noise. Running away from noise is called 'holiday' or 'a break'. Setuu Hanuman Bodhi is not a destination to take a break. For that you can choose any resort at any hill station.

Blessings

613. I want to know the purpose of my life...this is a query

Jai Sri Ram,

From the time I got to know about Setuu site and offering puja online,it gives me immense peace of mind.From childhood I have been away from my parents for education and job purpose till date.In the course of time,I met many people,I would only notice one thing that I have been a solace to many people from childhood from my parents to all people I met and all I meet.I dont have so called friends but I am always there with people in their bad times when they have pain of a broken heart.I pray for their happiness ,they get the happiness and move on.I dont know whether they remember me and I never expect anything in return.Once they get their desired thing I am aloof on the same journey being myself.Each day I am thankful and grateful for my wonderful life my Lord has given me and the best parents ever.

I am always praying for their well being,good health and longevity.The mystery is I dont have a stable job.If I work somewhere I can just work for maximum 8 or 9 months.I am concerned about my spiritual life.I just love to be in peace.I have no high expectations to be famous,rule others and am not ambitious.I just wish whenever someone is in presence of me or speaks to me should be happy and find peace.

I consulted good astrologers regarding my marriage,but all their predictions failed.Everyone in my family among my well wishers are just waiting for it,but my heart has lost all hope,my father gave me some spiritual things so that soon marriage would take place but even they got lost.

Anything related to my marriage if someone is trying to do they are facing some major problems even one of my astrologer uncle,whose all predictions came true,died the next day after he predicted my marriage.I dont know what is the matter.

I just want to know the purpose of my life from Lord Hanuman if granted by my Lord Sri Hari Vishnu.Everyone tells me my Lord loves me very much,but I want that the purpose of my life be revealed to me.

My wish is to love and serve my parents with all my heart mind and soul.I request you ask those Mathang rishis to put forward my query for the sake of my parents will my marriage take place?when ? what is the purpose of my life?

Thank you

Jai Sri Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

It is true that you are close to God. That is precisely the reason why God is taking your soul on the path of Moksha. Basically there are two conflicting desires exhibited by your soul,

(1) "I want stable materialistic life." This desire is exhibited by your conscious mind. When you observe people around you (including your parents), this desire gets enforced.

(2) "I want Moksha". This desire is exhibited by your subconscious mind.

Because of conflict of these two desires, you are virtually stuck at one place. You must take a decision. If you want a stable materialistic life, reduce your attention towards "supreme truth". Then God will understand that you want desire number 1 to be fulfilled. Once your desire 1 is fulfilled in a couple of years, you can resume desire 2.

Blessings

614. i want to meet hanuman ji

i want to meet hanuman ji

615. I want to meet you hanumanji

mujhae ajab ka felling aa rahi hae.
meri dil bol rhi hae in this life span i want to meet hanumanji once...
mae unki ake chota bhakt hun.
yeah bhakt pae hamesa krupa banayae rkhae.
aab tak mae joe bhi pap karm ki hun uskae lea mujhae maaf kar daen.mae apnae dil sae uskae lea sarminda hun.plz god give me one chance to meet you.
i want to disapper myself on you.
my soul is truly dedicated for u.
mae aapkaee badan mae leen hona chati hun.yeah kalpanik sansar sae mukti chati hun.
please god show me the way. give a look to me.

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्मा ,
आप श्री हनुमान जी को भगवान ही नहीं गुरु बनायें | एक एक करके आपके मस्तिष्क के सारे विकार समाप्त हो जायेंगे और एक दिन आप उन्हें अपने सामने साफ़ साफ़ देखेंगे |

मंगल कामना

616. i want my baby soon

bhagwan hanuman ji,,Please solve my problems related pregnancy.I want to be pregnant but i am suffering from primary infertility,and i beg u please solve my problems..i want my own baby in my womb I do not want to opt surrogacy as doctor suggested....please bhagwan ji do something and fullfil my dreams and wishes.i m very frustated and lonely without my baby....i feel i m reason behind all sadness and bad things happen in my family life..so please give some true happiness to me n my family. i m going for new ivf cycle on dated 9 feb..please give me your blessings for succes of cycle and after treatments by that i could also give birth a healthy child..pls do something god!!!!

617. I WANT TO SEE REAL ME

I know that Lord Shiva is in me.He is always presebt there and will be.Also after knowing this,I have the desire to see him in this mortal world with my own eyes.
Why is that?
I know that he listens my every prayer,my thoughts,He is my heart beat.
But after knowing all this,I want can't wait to see him.It means the same that 'I want fo see Real Me'!
I just want his hug.And i know,he must be smiling know while I'm writing this...Cause he is Almighty.My Shiv!

618. i was feeling that my soul was like coming out from my physical body

when i read chapter 5 after finishing it reading i felt that my soul is feeling light when i gone to sleep when i fell asleep in my bed at night i felt like my soul is coming out from my physical body and want to leave my body and go somewhere but it did not happen just i was feeling like that my soul means that i am coming out of this body which god has granted me .

619. Identity, Who I am or Who we Are.?

This confusion came to my mind while reading one of the chapters here and also that time campaign for donating body parts came in newspapers
Like a machine or car which is made of hundreds of parts.. every part is replacable., and yet the car remains the same, or the registration number remains the same.., for example.. A car registered with number 7652 has 100 parts , let it be named from 1 to 100.., and now in next 100 days due to any reasons we replace every part with a new part.. and now on 101 day we have a car with all different parts from the car we had on day 1, but yet we call it the same car with registratin number 7652. may it be because.. we had a registration card orit happens in daily human life.. watever.. but what about the we..,
our body is made up of different parts., hairs, skin , blodd, bones, eyes, kidney, liver lungs etc..
and in those newspapers i found almost all the body parts can be donated.. some parts can be donated during a healthy life., some can be in coma stage or brain dead stage..or some can be after death.., so, every part is donatable.., this means all those parts can be acceptable also to someone., let's suppose all those parts are transplanted in a body named someone in a timespan of 5 years.., after 5 years he/she has all parts of others.. like.. blood bones eyes skin heart lungs liver etc etc.. then why he/she still be called someone... WHY...
i questioned this to myself and some of my frnds and some knowledgable persons.. there were only 2 answers... one is because of soul and second is brain.. some claims brain is still not donatable.. or still can't be transplanted.. and all persons including me satisfied with the answer that our soul lies in our brain.. but somewhere in my mind i thinks.. mind is only for memories.. (urmi story, where lord hanuman told her to fly out of body).
then after few days i read a article in newspaper that scientist in china are going to transplant a brain in humans for the very first time.., they also claims that they have done thausands of succesfull brain transpanted surgery on rats.... now if dis happens in humans.. if a person with identity or name X got all transplants possible inclusing brain.. whether he should be still called X.. obviously yes.. because X got the transplants.. now my question is.. all parts in X before transplants are now missing and in place of those parts all new parts belonging to M N o P. etc etc are present now.., so why he should be called X nor a combination of MNOP, again answer is obviously the soul... i guess it .. i may be wrong.., but actually the simplyfied question is
" IN which part of our body soul lives or rests.. " as.., why X remains X after all transplants...
dis is like Identity crisis for me..,

hey lord hanuman pls guide me.. or give me power to understand this.. i m highly obliged to you.. thanks.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

This sense of "I" is not because of soul. Suppose we show you video of your soul's previous life, will your soul recognize that person and feel a sense of "I" with that person? NO.

It is not because of memory either. Memory relates to your past, what about the imaginations you have about future? Those imaginations also contribute to sense of "I".

You have a three dimensional existence- Past, Present and Future. This three dimensional existence creates illusion of "I".

And you are changing every moment. You don't have to change all the parts. You are changing every moment. Your cells are dying, new cells are taking birth and so on. You at 7:02:01 PM is completely different from you at 7:02:02PM

The answer to your question is existence which is three dimensional. At any point of time, you have a present, a future and a past. This 3 dimensional existence makes you feel who you are. Existence is a complex topic. Lord Hanuman has started elaborating it from chapter 10. You will read more of it in upcoming chapters.

Yes, your head and your memories can be completely replaced. Still you will feel the sense of "I". You are pursuing an excellent question. Do not let this question die. This question can lead you to realization. You will realize that Past is just an illusion. You think that you have "lived" your past, but that is not so. It is just an illusion. If a sage or God replaces your past, you will still feel that you have lived that past. Read 10th chapter and ponder upon it deeply.

P.S. : The soul doesn't live in the body. It rides the body just like we ride a car. It is driving our body.
Blessings

620. Idol Worship

Could you please make things clear about idol worship. When did it start and who started it and for what purpose? How is Idol worship supposed to be done correctly. Any correct way to do PranaPratishtha?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Swayambhu idols have souls in them. You will learn a bit about them in chapter 13 which has been released today. The idols which are not Swayambhu probably have something to do with symbolism. It is better not to speculate until we decipher all the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas.

Blessings

621. idols appeared in dreams are true

Babaji..

whenever i chant hanuman with great devotion i will dreamt of god Hanuman and i will get darshan of hanuman in different idols that i never see anywhere before.. are they really exist in real? once i dreamed as…. i requested before hanuman statue to talk with me and then statue said “tell me.. and when i started saying something god read some verses and he disappeared”.. i usually have this types experiences in my dreams… are these because of my psychological condition?? or god’s delusion..?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Those are desires which cannot be fulfilled in MaanavLoka at a particular time and space. They get fulfilled in SwapanLoka.

Blessings

622. IIlusion?

I was happy to read about Lord Hanuman's visit, but was shocked to see that He preached the illusionary nature of the world? Shastras dont support that at all.

The first shloka of the Bhagavatha says that the world is real. We experience it as real. Veda says "Satyam Vishwam maghavAna".

Lord Hanuman born as Shri Madvacharya ( as per veda and as per Vayu purana? says the world is real, then how can Lord Hanuman say that the world, created by His only favourite Lord Rama or Narayana, is illusionary?

That set my mind ringing that this story might not be real, am sorry to say.

Hari parataraH ...satyaM jagat

regards
sriram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Lord Hanuman is not making any declarations here. He is Guru of Mathangs and He has come to give them the Brahmagyan. He knows what He has to speak to them to unsettle their structured beliefs and to make space for the Brahmagyan. We are not the right authority to comment on His words. We are translating the conversations in best of their essence. Please follow the conversations as we post next chapters. Your doubts will be cleared.

Blessings

623. ill thoughts

Iam unable to perform pooja with peace of mind. Iam getting all bad thoughts and making me get out of meditation

Setu Speaks: 
Do not close your eyes when you pray or meditate. Just observe the sounds and scenes around you. Keep your body still. Feel your presence and presence of everything around you. Just observe everything. Do not try to control your thoughts. If thoughts are coming, just observe the thoughts coming. Do not try to stop them.

Blessings

624. illusion

illusion is the word created by the divine soul just to test how much we are able to think, we never can overcome from all the illusion without help of hanuman ji

625. illusion

Is the whole universe an illusion?
Is yoga a way to reach God?

Setu Speaks: 
Yes, the illusion of space-time.

Yoga means defying destiny and making Indra Deva and Kaaldeva obey you. Indra Deva can help you get rid of desires and Kaal deva can settle your Karma accounts. When both Karma and Desires are settled, you are free. You get Moksha,

Blessings

626. illusion of time

As i read the ram setu secret chapter.what i understand about time illusion as follows. suppose sun is centre from where kaal accounibility starts first come bhulok and then pataal so the bhulokis can see future of the pataallokis and pataallokis when they see towards bhulok they see the past time of bhulok.
Now i assume the earth as a tape roll as if like an audio cassette.. now i imagine a mark or time spot on topmost circle.if we see the immediate below layer of tape that will be at a forward position as in a straight line so that is why upperlayer person(bhuloki) can see future of below layered(pataalloki).and if we go to below layer (pataal)n mark a point at that point we can see past of upperlayer(bhulok).

627. Important Question

Main aapse ye puchna chahta Hu Ki main apne Mata pita ko Khushi kaise de sakta hu. Mje unse much nahi chahiye or Vo mjse naraaz na Ho uske liye me kya Kr skta Hu. Aesa main kya kru ki Vo mj par garv karain. Or me hmesha sach bolna chahta Hu par bol nahi pata. Or me logo ki sahayata krna chahta Hu par main isme bhi asmarth Hu. Kripya mje btaiye ki me kis prakaar ye sb kru..utter avashya dijiyega... Jai Shrii Ram

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

आपके आस पास जो भी आपसे जुड़े हुए हैं , वे चाहे आपके माता पिता हों अथवा वे अजनबी जिनकी आप सहायता करना चाहते हैं , उनकी सहायता अपने आप हो जायेगी अगर आप अपनी स्वयं की सहायता करें | अपनी आत्मा और उसकी शक्ति को पहचानिए | आपके आस पास भ्रम की चादर है , आपके माता पिता व अन्य लोग वास्तव में आपके अन्दर ही हैं | जब आपकी आत्मा खुश होगी तो आप देखेंगे कि कैसे आपके आस पास के लोग भी खुश होते हैं | आपकी आत्मा तब खुश होगी जब आप ऐसा कार्य करेंगे जिससे आपकी आत्मा को संतुष्टि मिले | आपका जन्म यहाँ किस लिए हुआ है , यह जानिये | जीवन का ध्येय पहचानिए | हर आत्मा का ध्येय मोक्ष होना चाहिए , उसी में आत्मा का कल्याण है |

|| राम ||

628. An Important Question

Jai Shree Ram
Jai Sita Mata
Jai Bajrangbali

I read everything posted on this website sincerely and try to implement as much as I can. I always wait for the next chapter anxiously. I was just thinking that chapter - 24 is taking a bit longer time, in the meanwhile, yesterday I saw your message that it's because of Assurahs.

Assurahs are everywhere. They influence our life too. We should try that our life shouldn't be influenced by Assurahs. For this, we need to connect to Lord Hanuman and purify our soul which we are doing or trying to do with the help of Setuu. Let's consider my case. I don't know how much I am successful or how much I implement in my life what I read on your website. But I am trying.

Only yesterday, I got to know that the delay in publishing chapter - 24 is due to Assurahs. Assurahs are creating problems to Mathangs and Setuu masters in publishing the chapter. Please correct me if I am wrong. And if I am right, then, my question is if Mathangs and Setuu masters, who are in direct service to Lord Hanuman and Mathangs who have got Brahm Gyaan directly from Lord Hanuman and Setuu Masters who take part in Sakshat Hanuman Puja, are not fully able to get over Assurahs, then, how can a normal person from mainstream society like me be able to get full control over Assurahs? I am just asking. Please forgive me if I ask anything wrong. Waiting for a reply.

Pranam to Mathangs and Setuu Masters.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

At the end, the good side won and chapter was published. Asurrahs are right here. They always put obstacles in the good work. It may take time but the good side always wins. This creation itself is a constant war between good and the evil. If evil is not there, there would be no creation as you know.

Only the enlightened ones realize how important chapter 24 is. After one point, the realized masters face the situation where they lack words to describe the supreme truth. Even great sages couldn't do it. Their words would become incomprehensible and generic after a certain point: like 'truth can not be described in words', 'we can only hint' and so on. Lord Hanuman has done what greatest Rishis in the past couldn't do. Chapter 24 describes what cannot be described. It describes the internal world which can be experienced/realized but almost impossible to describe. The attack of Asurrahs in publication of such words of importance is understandable.

Blessings

629. indriya

main ek atma jo ki manish naam ke deh main esthir hun main bhagwan hanuman ki 5 adhayay padhne ke bad thoda santi mahsush kiya lekin main apni endriyo ko vash main nahi kar pa raha hu mujhe ye nahi malum hai ki endriyon ko vas main kaise karte hai jiski vajah se main apni lakshya par nahi pahuch paa raha hun kripya kar marg darshan kare....

Setu Speaks: 
मान लीजिये कोई नटखट बच्चा है जो मौका पाते ही शरारत करता है | क्या उसके माता पिता उसे रस्सी से बांधकर रखेंगे ताकि वो शरारत ना करे ? नहीं | माता पिता का घर में होना ही पर्याप्त है | अगर बच्चे को लगेगा कि उसके माता पिता घर में ही हैं और वह शरारत करते पकड़ा जा सकता है तो वह अपने आप ही शरारत नहीं करेगा | कुछ ऐसा ही इन्द्रियों के साथ है | उन्हें बांधकर रखने की आवश्यकता नहीं है | अगर बाँधने की कोशिश करेंगे तो वे ज्यादा बिगड़ सकती हैं | बस उन्हें देखिए | अगर इन्द्रियों से कोई गलती हो जाती है तो इन्द्रियों की गलती का बोझ अपने सिर मत लीजिये | आप एक आत्मा हैं , शरीर हैं | शरीर जो करता है करने दीजिये | कुछ दिन में आप देखेंगे कि शरीर भी खुद ब खुद सुधर जाएगा |

हाँ छटा अध्याय पढने के बाद आपको एक बात और पता चली होगी --- कि आपका शरीर सुर तथा असुर भी प्रयोग करते है | अगर एक बार किसी असुर को आपके शरीर की आदत लग जाए तो वह बार बार शरीर में आने की कोशिश करेगा | अगर असुर को एक बार फटकार लग जाए कि उसके बुरे कर्म इस शरीर के माध्यम से संभव नहीं हैं तो वह नहीं आएगा| इसलिए इन्द्रिय परिग्रह भी आवश्यक है | अगर कोई बुरा कार्य करते समय आपका शरीर आपके वस में नहीं रहता तो यह अवश्य असुर के नियंत्रण में है | जब भी कोई बुरा कार्य करने की मन में आये तो समझ लीजिये कि कोई असुर आपको बहला फुसलाकर आपके शरीर का उपयोग करना चाह रहा है | उसे वही पर फटकार लगा दीजिये तो वह फिर से नहीं आएगा |


630. INFINITE HONOUR

I have too much honour for lord HANUMAN. Recently I got sudden financial loss. I think I will get back this soon with interest.

631. Infinite number of Worlds

Jai Siya Ram
Jai Hanuman

The world in which we are living is just one world out of infinite number of parallel worlds. I want to know more about this infinite number of worlds.

In chapter-1, the lady was on deathbed in one world which is termed as bad illusion and the same lady was alright in another world and this is termed as good illusion. Lord Hanuman helped the monk in jumping from one illusion to another. An ordinary human being cannot jump from one illusion to another. An ordinary human being would live a complete life in one world i.e. under a single illusion. But the monk had performed austerities in life. That is why Lord Hanuman could jump him fom bad illusion to good illusion.

I have read more about infinite number of worlds on your website. For example, a person is a beggar in one world while in another world the same person is very rich. Now, my question is Are the souls of both the persons in two different worlds same or different? Both the persons are same but they are in living different worlds and they cannot interact. So, are both the souls same or different? Also, why can't they interact?

This is about two different worlds. But you say that there are infinite number of parallel worlds. Can't the people from these infinite parallel worlds interact? Are the people same in all these infinite parallel worlds? Are there the same souls in these infinite parallel worlds?

Please answer my questions and tell me more about infinite number of parallel worlds. It's quite interesting to know that a person just like me is also living in some different world. But I don't know him. I wish I could interact with him. Please tell me if there is any way I can interact with him? If not, then, why?

Thank you Setuu
Thank you Mathangs
Regards

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Ponder yourself. Think deeply. Shooting questions from outer mind will not help. Think and try to find answers yourself. Even if you don't find an answer by thinking, you will progress on the path of supreme truth. But by shooting questions from outer mind and seeking ready made answers, you will only go backward or remain stuck at the same place.

Blessings


632. Intution regarding earthquake in advance

shri ramdoot anjaniputar hanuman ji,

on dated 25-4-2015 at near about 4 am i experienced a bad feeling duringmy sleep. i feel that there is huge earth quake and whole building of my home shaking.after few minutes i wake up and feel relax oh god it is dream . but afternoon i heard bad news that huge earthquake came in nepal and some parts of india. i pray to bajrang bali ji in future such type of pre intutions only occur for some good news inmy life.

jai shri Ram ,
aap ka sewak Dinesh Gupta


633. Isse kalp ke baar HANUMAAN JI kaha chale jayenge ?

Continued from #508063
Iss kalp ke baad Hanuman ji kaha chale jayenge... kya ve moksh chale jayenge ?

Setu Speaks: 
विष्णु लोक में |


634. It is a query-

Rama Ram Ram

I submit this query after a lot of contemplation whether to ask and how to post this query etc.

My question is even if I chant Ram Nam regularly, why dont i get any sort of guidance from within or from some other super natural sources.

What ever i do or think or decide to do, everything goes waste or in other words, my actions and efforts give the opposite reactions and results. Why????? I start with lots of confidence and positive thoughts and with good energy levels and what ever is needed for the particular actions - Then too they go in vain.

WHY?????

I need some guidance - for what to do - when to do - or how to !!!!

How will i get the proper guidance??????

When will I get success in my life??????

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You are not getting success because you are desperate for it. You are not at peace with your present, how can your future be peaceful and better. For instance, you haven't read even all the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas published here. You don't do anything with patience because you are not comfortable with the way you are right now. You want to run away from your present. See, what you currently are right now is a sum total of your Karmas and Desires of past. You have to accept your past and present, then only future can be better.

Don't chant Ram Nam just for motive of fulfilling desires. Chant it with your heart. First realize who you are? Are you a piece of blood and flesh which has some desires. Or are you something higher than that? Contemplate.

Blessings

635. It seems I become eligible

Jai Shree Ram ! Jai Jai Hanuman !!

In chapter 18, it was mentioned that this truth cannot be explained to all. So if we came to know about this truth, does it means that we became eligible for this truth.

As you said (in answer of other devotees), that this chapter seeds questions in one's mind so that he\she can promote their selves. There is number of questions in my mind also and one of them is -

What is Kamdhenu ? I am still thinking about this only thing.

My Thoughts : in this question, sage said that don't limit to your mind and go beyond it to solve this puzzle. I think that to go beyond this mind we have to take help of this mind to awaken our "Chetana" because I think this is only thing which can help us to go beyond the mind. But to awaken "Chetna" we still need our mind which has all the Gyan in it.

All the knowledge I have, I came to the conclusion that Kamdhenu is the Guru | Milk is that knowledge given by Guru | That Gyan is the Base of "Astitava" and if we have that Gyan then we can fulfill our wish without efforts.

I also think that I know that how to fulfill wishes without efforts. In previous chapters you explained that if we give up our "Bhagye" the Lord Indra offer us some choice that we can select or demand. So we give up our "Bhagye" then we can fulfill our wishes from him. Right ? Is it that Gyan but this cannot be the base of Astitava.

But somewhere I am feeling that I am lacking somewhere it could be or couldn't be the correct answer.

I am confuse. please help me

Please correct me If I am wrong and help me to walk ahead.

Jai Shree Ram ! Jai Jai Hanuman !!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Kaamdhenu is not Guru. You are doing the same mistake which was done by king Arjuna. Human mind wants to categorize everything and put a label on it. Your mind wants to put the label of 'Kaamdhenu' on Guru. Mind wants comfort and questions give discomfort to mind. Specially the questions which have potential to take you beyond mind. Don't yield to tendencies of mind. If we tell the answer, you will lack the knowledge which you would have got in the process of getting the answer. Keep the question in mind. The answer will strike you all of a sudden.

Blessings

636. is it true..

kya yeh stye h ki bhuke rhne se hanuman ji jaldi sunte h?

Setu Speaks: 
नहीं , यह सत्य नहीं है |

हाँ , व्रत करने से आपको अपने तन मन से उपर आत्मा के स्तर पर पहुँचने में मदद अवश्य मिल सकती है | जब आप आत्मा के स्तर पर होते हैं तभी आप हनुमान जी के साथ संपर्क करने योग्य होते हैं |

|| राम ||

637. Jai Anjeneyar

I have just completed my fast for Anjeneyar this and last year. I started the fast last year and he helped me to carry on by giving me the strength and courage to move forward when i was in my lowest point. We are not out of it yet as I pray to him everyday. I cannot afford to provide him anything but a simple glass of water and sometimes raisins or fruit. I have felt his energy and I cant describe what it was but it felt so calm and peaceful expecialy when chanting Hanuman chalisa.
Oh Lord, I know you have heard my plea and cries and I am still pleading with you for help. Om Sri Rama Jayam.

638. JAI BAJA JI SARKAR

MERA NAM MAHENDRA SAHU HA ME LALITPUR ME RAHTA HU HUM LOG 3 BHAI OR 1 BANIN H MERE PAPA MAMI 4 SAL PAHLE MERE PAREBAR ME HISSA BAT HO RAHA THA TAB MERE TABIYAT ACHANAK KHARAB HO GAYE OR DR.NE MANA KAR DIYA TO MERE BUA JI KO COLL KARKE BATAYA TO BAH MUJHE DEKHNE A RAHE THI OR BO PAHLE SE HE BALA JI MAHDIPUR JATE THI TO UNHE EK AAMA JI BATATI H UNHONE BATAYA KI MAHENDRA KO KUCH NHI HUA H USE UPRE KALA JADU KARA DIYA H TO MERE BUA JI NE BATAYA TO MERE PAPA KO YAKEN NHI HUA FIR MERE BUA JI NE BATAYA KE AAMA JI NE BATAYA KE KUCH PUJA KARNE HO GE OR BALA JI DARSAN KO LIKAR JANA PADEGA MERE MAA NE MAN ME HE BOL DIYA KE DARSAN KARADE FIR MERE TABIYAT THODI THIK HO GAYE 3 DIN BAD JAB ME GHAR AYA TO MERE TABIYAT FIR SE KHARAB HO GAYE MERE PAPA MUJHE GABALIYAR LE GAYE BAHA CT SCNE KARAYA US ME KUCH NHI NIKLA FIR MERE BUA JI NE MUJHE AAMA JI SE MILNE BULAYA ME GAYA UNHONE BATAYA KI MERE GHARKE HE LOG HE JIN LOGO NE MUJHE KALA JADU KARAYA THA OR 2 DIN KE ANDAR HE BALAJI MAHDIPUR LE JAO NHI TO MUJHE KOI NHI BACHA SAKTA ME DUSRE HE DIN MAHDE PUR CHALA GAYA BAHA MENE BHOG LAGAYE OR MUJHE PASI AYE TO US ME SABHI LOGO KE NAM BATAE KE KIS KIS NE KALA JADU KARAYA MERE PAPA KE BADE OR CHOTE BHAYI OR UNKI BIBI KA NAM BATAYA TAB PAPA KO YAKIN HUA JAB SE ME SIR BALA JI SARKAR KE PUJA KARTA HU AB ME THIK HU BAS EK HE IKCHA KE MUJHE BALA JI SARKAR KE DARSAN KARNA H

639. Jai Bajarangbali

Jai Shree Ram , Jai Bajarangbali........! Hey Bajarangbali , mujhe shakti aur kabiliyat do ki main apne karyashetra me sarvoch oonchaiyon ko praapta karu aur is darmiyan mere vijay path me aane wali baadhaon ko main aapke aashirwad se aasani se paar kar shaku....! Mujhe aashirwad aur shakti do ke main is shrushti mai bahot saare bhalai ke kaam kar saku..
Jai Bajarangbali.....!

640. JAI BAJRAN BALI JAI

Oh Lord Hanumana !!! The word Moksha in Humans is possible only you wish to give us with
love and affection for the sake we are your childrens.

Humanly is impossible, I need all your blessings, I totalally surrender to you on the Holy feet.
Shower all the blessings in every seconds of my life in this world and forever, forever, forever....
Baba Bless your childrens, Baba Bless your childrens, Baba Bless your childrens.

Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai Ram, Jai Jai ram...

Veeranjaneyaswamy namasthe namasthe namasthe !!!
Veeranjaneyaswamy namasthe namasthe namasthe !!!
Veeranjaneyaswamy namasthe namasthe namasthe !!!

641. jai bajrang bali

bajrang bali baba ji maine apki shakti ko ajmaya hai.mujhe pata hai aap mere sath ho hamesha or mere har baat sunte ho. kabi b koi b kasht aata hai toh hamesha sath dete ho.mera bhai apka bagat hai.bachpan seh apki pooja karta hai shyad yeh mere bhai ka he vishvas tha jo mujhe b apki bhagti ki raah par leh aaya. maine aaj tak jinti baar b kuch b difficult wish mangi hai voh puri hue hai. 40 din lagatar 11 baar hunumaan chalisa padh kar human ji seh kuch b wish poori karvaye hai. ab maine tuesday k fast shuru kiye hai. or yeh fast maine apne mumaa,papa or bhai k liye rakhe hai taki hunamaan ji unn par hamesha kirpa rakhe.mere papa or bhai ka business or b jada badeh. or jab b mera fast hota hai tuesday ko useh din mere bhai ko kaam main lakho ka profit hota hai. mujhe pata hai hanumaan ji mere prathna sunte hai but main yeh jaanna chahti hu ki kya iss kalyug main mere jaise simple bhagat unn k darshan kar sakte hai? or kaise unn k darshan kar sakte hai? hum kaise unki pooja kare k voh khush ho jaye or hum ko darshan deh.

Setu Speaks: 
This experience has been communicated to Lord Hanuman in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja. आपके एक एक शब्द में मोह और माया के दर्शन हो रहे हैं | हनुमान जी के दर्शन हर कोई कर सकता है परन्तु मोह और माया जहाँ हैं वहां हनुमान जी साक्षात् दर्शन नहीं दे सकते | आपकी मासूमियत के चलते वे आपको परेशानियों से बचाते रहेंगे लेकिन साक्षात् दर्शन तभी संभव हैं जब मोह और माया दोनों का त्याग हो | गृहस्थी में रहकर त्याग कठिन जरूर है लेकिन अगर आप हनुमान जी को गुरु मानकर उनकी उंगली थामे तो वे आपको मोह माया के जंजाल से निकालकर दर्शन अवश्य देंगे | यहाँ पर पोस्ट किये जा रहे हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के अध्याय अगर आप एकांत में पढेंगे तो आपको हनुमान जी अवश्य अपने दर्शन का रास्ता दिखायेंगे | शुभम | मंगलम ||

642. Jai bajrang bali

Agar aisa real main hua hai to mere param pujya "Pavanputra Hanuman ji" apko sat-2 naman,
main bhi apka ek agyani putra huin , apni krupa mujh par aur mere parivar par kar dejiye prabhu. apko koti-koti pranam. aur is sansar ko papon se mukt kariye!

643. Jai Bajrang Bali

I have always had faith and belief in Lord Hanuman. Every time I was in a situation where I needed help, I would think of him and the situation would be overcome. I continue to pray and will continue to do so through out my life.

Jai Shri Ram !

644. jai bajrang bali

me bhut kush hu ki satuu hanuman ke madyam se me bajramg bali ke aur bhi jaan paya...
i feel so luck.....................
and i m waiting for 10 chepar...............?

645. Jai Bajrang Bali maharaj

Jai Bajrang Bali,

He mere Prabhu ye duniya itni matlabhi ho gaye hai ki apne Mata aur Pita ka hi parityag kar de rahe hai. He Prabhu ji jo ye accident ho rahe kahi pe pani ki bad ane se mar rahe hai kahi blast hone se mar rahe ye sab kya karan ho sakta hai. kya sab ka yek sath maran likha hai ya bhir ab manv hi danav ban gaye hai. Kya aise hi Bharat mata ki god se sab chale jayenge
ya phir kiska kuch nivarn hoga.

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मा ,

सृष्टि की माया को समझिये | यह कलियुग है | कोई कहीं नहीं जा रहा , आत्मा अजर और अमर है | समय के चक्र में आत्माएं अपने कर्मों का हिसाब चुकता कर रही हैं ताकि वे हिसाब चुकता होने के बाद वैकुण्ठ की ओर लौट सकें |

|| राम ||

646. Jai Bajrangbali

Ever since childhood I have been a devotee of Hanumanji. I have immense faith in lord Hanuman. Hanumanji has always been protecting me from all kinds of evils and troubles. I have grown up worshipping lord Hanuman and all these years my faith in lord Hanuman has grown manifold times. Before starting any work I rarely forget to remember Hanumanji. He makes my work successful most of the times. Hanumanji, everything is visible to you. You know everything. Please forgive me and my parents if knowingly or unknowingly we have made any mistakes either in this birth or in previous births. I have also got my Charan Pooja done by the Mathangs. Also, I have offered some fruits to lord Hanuman after reading Chapter-1 of Setuu. Hanumanji, please accept my prayers and offerings and bless me and my parents. Hanumanji, please bless me with a good job. Also, help us become good souls. Hanumanji, keep your blessings on me and my parents and guide us to follow in the right direction of life which leads to you and make our souls so pure that we can get your glimpse. Hanumanji, I really want to have your glimpse in this life of mine. So, Hanumanji, please help in making my soul so pure that I can have your glimpse in this life with my naked eyes. I really want to thank Setuu and the Mathangs from the core of my heart for helping people connect with almighty Hanuman. They are really doing a great job and that must be appreciated. Jai Bajrangbali. Jai Shree Ram.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Your prayers have been accepted on this auspicious day. Take a deep breath and break all the barriers. Let the light of Lord's blessings reach deep into your soul.
Blessings

647. jai bajrangbali

Hai hanuman ji madat karo app sab jante ho ki kiya ho RHA hai meri jindgi mein madat karo bajrangbali

648. Jai Bajrangbali-2

Ever since childhood I have been a devotee of Lord Hanuman. I have full faith in Lord Hanuman. I know I have his blessings. Whatever I am today and whatever I have achieved in my life till today, that's all because of his blessings. I rarely forget to take his name before I start any work. Most of the times my prayers have been accepted except for some. In all these days my devotion towards Lord Hanuman has increased only. The unanswered prayers have not lessened my faith and devotion in Lord Hanuman even a bit.

Last year while surfing on internet, I got to know about your website Setuu. I went through it. At first, I thought it's also like other websites which cheat people in the name of God. But later I couldn't stop myself and booked Charan Pooja for myself. I got the date of Charan Pooja on 13/05/14. I felt very relieved the moment I booked Charan Pooja. I thought now I will get the blessings of Lord Hanuman and everything good will happen to me. I was excited too. I got the mail that Charan Pooja of Shri Hanumanji was performed for me on 13/05/14 and it was completed without any Vighnam. I didn't get any rare message from Hanumanji or the Mathangs or Setuu.

I was happy that Charan Pooja was completed without any Vighnam. At that time, I was in the final year of my Post Graduation. Days passed and nothing miraculously happened. Neither I had expected. But somewhere in my heart I had a feeling that now everything good would happen with me. I was feeling relieved and confident. I successfully completed my PG with Lord Hanuman's grace.

But I was not able to get a job or admission to Phd. I was very much disturbed and many a times got frustrated too. Days passed like this only. Everytime I prayed to Lord Hanuman for my job and Phd. Finally, that day came when my prayer was accepted and I got a job in a software company. I was happy that Lord Hanuman accepted my prayer and I thanked him from the core of my heart.

But soon after joining the job, I started facing problem in my training. I prayed to Lord Hanuman that anyhow I just complete my training. But I couldn't complete my training and I lost my job.

I never get anything easily. I don't have peace in my life. After completing my schooling, I have to wait for a year to get admission in engineering and that too somehow. After completing my engineering with God's grace, I couldn't get any job. Even after trying hard, I didn't get any job. Then I joined a coaching institute and started preparing for government jobs. Even there I failed. I couldn't get any government job. But with God's grace I cracked gate(a competitive exam) and got admission in PG. Again aftet PG, I had to wait for around six months to get my first job. But that too didn't last long. I had my job only for three months.

I don't know why all this is happening to me. Many people(astrologers) say that it's because of some dosh in my horoscope(kundali) while others say that it's because of our house problem or vaastu problem. I don't know what is the real reason which is stopping me from getting success and peace.

Right now I am very disturbed and not able to concentrate on one thing. So many thoughts come to mind. Sometimes I think to go for Phd while sometimes for IT jobs while sometimes for government jobs. I am getting confused. I don't know which way I should go. I often get frustrated and sometimes depressed too.

Also, I have some health issues.

Will I ever be able to get peace? When will I get another job rather permanent job? Will I ever be fully fit without any health issues? When will I settle in life? I need to get answer of these questions.

Regarding the job that I lost, I got to know later through Setuu that it was my fault. I complicated my prayers to get fast result. I involved my parents and society in my prayer. That was my fault. But now it's only you and me Hanumanji. Please accept my prayer now again Hanumanji.

I request the Mathangs to pray to Lord Hanuman in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja for my peace, good permanent job and health on my behalf.

I have full faith in Lord Hanuman. I strongly believe that Lord Hanuman will give me a very good and permanent job very soon. Also, all my health problems will vanish and I will get peace of mind. Soon I will settle in life. Hanumanji, please forgive me if I have done anything wrong knowingly or unknowingly either in this birth or previous births. Please purify my soul and mind and give me positive energy so that there is no place for negativity in my soul and mind. Please keep your blessings on me forever.

Jai Bajrangbali
Jai Shree Ram

May God bless everyone.

Thank you Mathangs
Thank you Setuu
Regards

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Take care of these 4 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear" and "worry" etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.

649. Jai Bala Ji Maharah

Hey Prabhu tumhari hi kripa hai jao hum abhi tak is sansar me jivit hai or jivan yapan ka anand le rahe hai.
mera to yahi manana hai ki sab par parbhu tumhari kripa bani rahi.
Jai Siya Ram Jai Hanuman
Jai Bala ji maharaj
Jai bajrang bali maharaj

650. jai banrang bli

me hanuman ji ka bahut bda bhakt hu .................
me abhi compition ki prepartion kar rhahu .......
mere man me hmesha unka khyal rhta he me koi bhi kam karta hu chahe vo kisi bhi field me kyo na ho mere man me hmesha bjrang bli rhte he ..l
lekin.....week me ek din mera esa hota he ki me kuch bhi acha nhi soch pata depresion me a jata hu .me try karta hu ki acha sochu lekin nhi soch pata is wajh se mera ek din bahut bigad jata me...aur me apne laksh ki aur badne me ek din peche rha jata hu .....
mera question he ki me apne ap ko santulit kese rkhu?
aur jada consntraret kar saku aur apne lakesh ko prapt kar saku

Setu Speaks: 
निम्न 5 बातों का ख्याल रखें -
(1) आप में अपने लक्ष्य को पूरा करने की तीव्र इच्छा होनी चाहिए |
(2) उन इच्छाओं को पूरा करने के लिए आवश्यक प्रयास करें अन्यथा आपकी आत्मा उन लक्ष्यों को इस संसार में पूरा करने की बजाय स्वपन लोक में पूरे कर लेगी |
(3) अपने दिल दिमाग में “भय” “चिंता” आदि नाम के दानवों को जगह न बनाने दे अन्यथा हनुमान जी को लगेगा कि आप उनकी बजाय दानवों को अपने दिल दिमाग में रखना पसंद करते हैं | बाधाएं दूर करने के लिए हनुमान जी की सहायता प्राप्त करने के लिय यह अति आवश्यक है |
(4) अगर आपका मन अपने कार्य की बजाय अन्य गतिविधियों में लगता है तो समझ लीजिये कि असुर आपके आस पास मंडराते हैं | असुर आपकी देह और मन का प्रयोग कर रहे हैं | असुरों का स्वभाव है कि उन्हें एक बार असफलता मिल जाए (देह - मन का प्रयोग करने में ) तो वे दूर चले जाते हैं | जब आपको लगे कि आप कुछ गलत कर रहे हैं तो तुरंत विरोध करें , असुर आपसे दूर चले जायेंगे |
(5) अपनी प्रार्थना को सरल रखें | अपनी प्रार्थना अपने और प्रभु के बीच रहने दें उसमे आप परिवार , समाज तथा अन्य लोगो को शामिल न करें | सही प्रार्थना - “हे प्रभु मेरी आवश्यकताए पूरी करें ताकि मै मोक्ष के मार्ग पर चल सकूँ |” गलत प्रार्थना - “मेरे जीवन में फलां व्यक्ति को ले आयें , मेरे परिवार को ऐसा करें , मेरे समाज को ऐसा करें|” आप जितने लोगो को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल करेंगे उतने लोगो के कर्म रोड़ा बनते जायेंगे |

651. Jai Bhajarangabali!!!

I firstly want to express my heartfelt gratitude for all the blessings I have received in my life so far and for all the blessing I would receive in the future!!! I'm very grateful for Setuu Masters for connecting many souls to Shri Anjaneya through the divine Mathangs!!

I can feel Shri Hanuman in my every breath, every step and every heartbeat.. I know that HE is guiding me through my intuitions..

Hanuma deva, you know my past and my present and my future.. You know I have suffered since my marriage, I've tried my best to do good deeds, be calm, forgiving and loving all the time.. I strongly feel the influence of Assurahs in my marital life, I know my husband has a good soul but he's unable to control the bad influence of assurahs because of which both our families are in great turmoil..
could you please give me and my loved ones harmony by removing obstacles from my married life?

Are assurahs affecting all of us or it's our bad karma collectively manifesting simultaneously?

Anjaneya I humbly pray to you to keep assurahs away from me and my loved ones.. I want my baby to be with his father and also my parents without difficulties..

Deva kindly remove my karmas from my past lives and bless me with knowledge..
May I chant mrityunjaya mantra to attain moksha and break the cycle of life and death?

Tvamasmin karya niryoge pramanam
Harisattama
Hanuman yatna maastaya dukha kshaya karo Bhava

My humble pranams to you deva

Thank you Setuu and Mathangs

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Everything around is you is a manifestation of your inner being. If you shift your point of existence, everything around you shall change. If you instead try to change things around you, you will get trapped more and more into this quicksand. Love your inner being and everyone around you will love you. Search your inner being and everyone you want in your life will automatically get attracted towards you.

Another advice for you is this : Oftentimes we figure out that a particular person is causing us troubles and we start hating that person. Hate is a form of attachment. More you hate that person, more troubles you will get. If a person seems to be cause of your troubles, immediately cut connections with that person. Neither hate nor love that person. That person can be an imaginary person who you think may be influencing decisions of your loved ones. Do not hate/love that imaginary person also. That is the only way to save ourselves from the Asurrahs who are mounted on other people's beings.

If an Asurrah is mounting on you, for example you get angry or exhibit negativity, then there is another way to get rid of that Asurrah. You must be able to differentiate between yourself and the Asurrah. When you do something negative, you should immediately realize that this is not you, this must be an Asurrah who got hold of your mind. If you start recognizing the Asurrah's actions done through you, the Asurrah will go away. Never own up the actions done by Asurrah through your body-mind, otherwise you will have to face the consequences of their actions.

Mantra alone won't help for Moksha. First of all you seek to know who you are. Seek and then you will meet a Guru - visible or invisible. Then you will proceed on path of Moksha.

Blessings

652. Jai chintaharan balaji mahraj

बहुत समय से आपको ढुंढ रहा हु पृभु आखिर मेरी गलती क्या है।ब्राहम्ण कुल मे जन्म दिया आपने बस इतनी प्राथना इतना सार्मथ्य दे दो की अपने माता पिता को अच्छा आगे जिवन दे सकु।बस एक अच्छी नोकरी लगवा दो बहुत परेशान हूं प्रभु

653. Jai Ganesh, Jai Sri Rama, Jai Hanuman

Jai Sri Ram Jai Hanuman !!!

Respected higher souls,

Lord Vishnu is my friend, guide His leelas attract me like no other, though I still have high respect towards Lord Ganesh, LordShiva&Lalitambika, Lord Hanuman, Lord Murugan..

1. I wish my husband gets good longterm job, So we can spend our energy on devotional activites and provide better future for our son.
2. I have stopped traditional puja like litting diya, arpanam(prasadam) at home, waiting to get better place so I can sit and do puja whole heartedly. but im feeling guilty for not making more efforts. I still pray in my heart though ask for blessing of Lord Vishnu and Lord Hanuman. Am I doing it right?
3.Prayer: O Lord Hanuman, let me be happy and content. Let all my needs be met. Please help me forgive and forget my bad memories.

Please pass my humble queries and prayer to Lord Hanuman.

I'm helpless I keep thinking about people who used to like me I am not sure whether they really like me or not because of them I had problems however when they stop liking me just because they think I'm in happy place is it my fault or there's? I hope Lord Hanuman helps me get over bad memories

Jai SRIRAMARAMARAMA !!!!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul

(1) You should not feel any need of approval of others on your relationship with your God. If it feels right to your soul, it is right. The traditions set by Rishis in general may be overruled by the traditions of the family set by the family Guru/ancestors. And traditions of family can be overruled by the devotee if their soul is connected with the Lord.

(2) It is nobody's fault. Human relationships of Kaliyuga work this way only. If you are in a bad position, your relatives/friends will desert you out of contempt. If you are in good position, they will desert you out of jealousy/misunderstanding. Focus on the only relationship which is true: Your soul's relationship with the supreme.

Blessings

654. Jai hanuma ji

It is really great feeling ...first Thanks to setuu organization. When I am reading these one by one getting more intrest about god hanuman ji

655. Jai hanuma ji

I am so happy by study n hearing hanuman ji stories thanq setuu ji baba matang ji ki

656. Jai Hanumaan

Jai Veer Hanumaan...! Hanumaan ji is shrushti ke har ek jeev ko aap apna aashirwad de aur unke mann me aanewale burey vichaaron ko door rakhen . Is shrushti to aap sukhi aur samruddh banaye and sabhi buraaiyon aur musibaton se bachaye . Hum aur sachche mann se aapki prarthana kare aisi bhakti humein pradaan karein . Is sansaar ko surakshit rakhein .
Jai Shree Raam...! Jai Hanumaan...!

657. Jai hanumaan jai shreeram

Jai veeranjaneya...hanumaan please listen my prayer...this is very important and this is the last chance i have...so if u bless me in this regard (u knw wat is in my mind) i will be very happy... and pls put full stop for past 3 years sufferings by giving blessings to my desire plsss hanumaan...and let me share my experience in future days...jai hanuman

658. jai hanumaan ji

main yeh janna chahti hu ki kya hanumaan ji ladies ko be darshan dete hai. main tuesday k fast rakhti hu but mujhe sab log yahi kehte hai k hanumaan ji k fast only male rakhte hai not female. bachpan seh he yahi sunna hai k hanumaan ji ki pooja female nhi karti or nah he unko murti ko touch be nhi karti. kya ladies tuesday ka fast rakh sakti hai or kya ladies hanumaan ji ki pooja kar sakti hai? kya hanumaan ji ladies ko darshan dete hai?
family main reh kar hum kaise moh or maya ka tyag kare k hum ko bhagwan k darshan ho sake?

Setu Speaks: 
देखिये हनुमान जी की पूजा शरीर से नहीं होती , मन से होती है | जिस मन में भक्ति हो वह मन भक्त का मन होता है किसी औरत या पुरुष का नहीं | अगर पूजा कक्ष में हम शरीर से ऊपर उठ जाते हैं इसलिए यह केवल भ्रम है कि स्त्रियों को हनुमान जी की पूजा नहीं करनी चाहिए | यह भ्रम फ़ैलाने वाले मुर्ख हैं |

शुरुआत तो यहाँ पर अध्याय पढ़कर कीजिये आपको मोह से दूर होने में सहायता मिलेगी | मोह और प्रेम में अंतर होता है | उस अंतर को समझने में सहायता मिलेगी | पहला अध्याय तो मोह पर ही तो आधारित है | उसे फिर से पढ़िए |

659. jai hanuman

jai hanuman, mere naam ganesh hai. mai jai hanuman ko manta,puja karta hu mere man me hanuman aapulki hai. muze padhai me maan nahi lagta hai aisa kuch koro ki muze bohot padhai karte achai job mil sake to kya hanuman ki mere help kar sakege kya.. or kuch aisa chamatkar ho ki hanuman ji mere sapne me akar muze darsan ke or margadarsan kare... .......jai shri ram jai hauman... thanks u.

660. JAI HANUMAN

I experienced the presence of lord hanuman in each moment when i read this chapter. i am speechless. Jai Hanuman ||

661. Jai Hanuman.

I always carry his small photo in my DL book. I know he is protecting me from the evils and bad happenings to me and my family. Is it not? my lord.

662. Jai hanuman

Today on 20th Oct 2014,

I am bound to pay my loan emi almost needing Rs 100,000 /- including all expenses , But even though i received Rs70000/- , all the money evaporated like the water vapor.

I am confused and worried, on reading chapter 2 , i became silent , waiting for the God's will to flash in me and act

JAI Hanuman , May ur holy name purify me and dissolve the mind and make realize the self

663. Jai Hanuman

Namaste....(Hello)

I thank the Setuu community to make me aware about LORD HANUMAN and other related knowledge.

I have a question, what tasks we have to do to become so pure that I could see LORD HANUMAN with physical eyes as MATHANGS can do.

Have to do some special kinds of Prayers or Yoga or make some particular habits to be pure souls.

kindly Reply.

Jai Shree Ram
Jai Hanuman

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Just start observing yourself. In a given day, you observe many people and things. Make habit of observing yourself while you are indulged in worldly activities. One simple way to observe is to address yourself as third person.

For example, suppose your name is XYZ. When you are doing something, think in your mind, "XYZ is doing this. XYZ is doing that."

Then think if "XYZ" is doing this thing and I can see "XYZ" doing this thing, then who am I? Am I XYZ or someone who is observing XYZ?

Blessings

664. JAI HANUMAN

I BELIEVE IN THIS STORY ... I PRAYER JAI HANUMAN BLESS ME ... PLEASE IMPROVE MY FUTURE .... GIVE ME BLESS FOR ESTABLISHED MY NEW BUSINESS & HAND MY ALL BUSINESS THOUGH YOUR BLESS. PLEASE ACCEPT MY HUMBLE PRAYER . ALWAYS BLESS ME ... JAI HANUMAN .

665. Jai Hanuman

Prathamavagi e Gautham maduva Shradda bhakthi ya Namaskaragalu Hanuma.
Yeradu dinagala hinde vishnu / narayana nannannu thanna drushti inda nodida haage kanasu kandidde, eega hanumana bagge vishaya odudthiddene. Hey hanuma nanna shradda bhaktiya namanagalannu sweekarisi haagu srhimannarayana pada kamalagaligu saha arpisi. nanna mathu nanna kutumbada sadasyarige sukha,shanthi, nemmadi haagu mokshavannu prasadisu tande. Hindu sanatana dharamavannu nashavagadanthe kapadi olleya margadarshanavannu kodu thande. Shri hariya kruapa kataksha nanna hagu nanna kutumbadavara mele sada iruvanthe madi nammannu kapadi , mokshadedege nadesi pavanarannagi madi. Sadaa nammomdigiri

Bhakti inda innomme : Jai Shree Ram, Om Namo Narayanaya

666. Jai Hanuman

Jai Hanuman. You are a great devotee of Lord Rama .We respect and admire you and your devotion towards Lord Rama and your experiences/adventures . People in today's generation are more materialistic and egoistic with limited or no values . Please give me strength and confidence to take care of my family and my daughter . Please give me energy to serve my parents. Please put me in right direction with right thoughts .

667. Jai Hanuman

Main Hanuman ji ka bada bhakta hu ye main kehta hoon lekin mujhe maloom nahi ki main ye kehne ke bhi layak ho ya nahi par ab main apni sansarik jeevan main bahut kashta sahan kar raha hu meri hanuman ji se prarthana hai ki wo mere jeevan ko saral marg de aur mera jeevan sukhi aur sampanna banaye...................JAI SHREE RAM

668. Jai Hanuman

I'm feeling wonderful and my soul always somewhat flying with Lord Hanuman while doing anything during working, playing, eating or anytime. I'm actually married and have some issues in my personal life. even though I'm not down due to the God power since I trust the God that he always help me anytime. will share the more details.

Please..please ask mathangs to remove my health issues due to karma in this life with help of Lord Hanuman. some times I feel to die due to bad life but as I trust the God..I'm not taking that tuff decision.

Setu Speaks: 
-- conveyed to the Lord ---

669. Jai Hanuman

Jai Sri Ram.

I am fortunate enough to have the opportunity of going through

the Wisdom Blessed to us By Lord Hanuman.

It is a strange coincidence I got connected to Set Org

who are passing this secret Valuable knowledge to us.

After reading the Chapters I had divine experiences

and which are clearly told to us.Experiences are refined and more

Positive Energies are Felt. I am reading with Total devotion and surrender

to My God Hanuman Ji. Jai Sri Ram.

670. Jai Hanuman

My dear lord,
I truly believe that you are here around me to take care of us, I am no one to ask anything from you. We have very tiny hands to take but you have very large hands to give.
I only have one request to give me strength, peace please my mind, a feeling of satisfaction,avoid feeling of hatred and revenge and ability to keep my loved once happy. And the devil who has entered in my family who is killing them one by one pl take him away from my family.
Please give me an apportunity to meet you , to see you in this life.

Setu Speaks: 
---- Prayer Conveyed to the Lord ---

671. jai hanuman

mai hanuman ji ka Bhakt hu muze mere jivan me mere Bhagwan hanuman ji se milana hai yahi mere jivan ka ek lakshya hai
jai hanuman jai hanuman jai hanuman jai hanuman jai hanuman

672. Jai hanuman

After reading about mathangs i feel how fortunate mathangs are. I feel I want to be with them. Am I that fortunate? After reading the chapters for few days I am feeling very much I wanted to be with my beloved hanuman.some times I wonder where I am in this world. The chapters show a great impact in me.Please mathangs masters my wish will be fullfilled or not? I thank hanuman to show me the website about him Jai hanuman and pranam

673. Jai Hanuman

While reading Chapter No 10
I experienced some unknown
Power Surrounded me and had a feeling of
Sakthi Path.Rama Priyam Namastubhayam.
Hanuman Raksha Sarvada.

674. jai hanuman

i often read sunderkand when i am disturbed with anything sometimes i am just reading it without devotion but as i complete it i am more controlled in emotions

675. Jai Hanuman

Jai bajrangbali prabhu bless my younger brother ,mother and my full family.kripa Karo prabhu

676. jai hanuman

jai shri bajrangbali ,you are the most powerful in this kaliyug who can save their bhakts from problems. hey prabhu bless us, bless my brother who is facing some problems in his life regarding job .bless us prabhu also tell us the path through my brohter and i can achieve peace, happiness and materialistic wishes.

677. JAI HANUMAN

RAM RAM JI
MAINE JAB SE HANUMAN SETU PARNA SHRU KIYA SANKAT MOCHAN JI NE MERE SANKAT HARNE SHRU KER DIYE.MAINE JO SOCHA B NAI THA VO USSE B JADA HUA MERE SATH.MAI EK PRIVATE JOB KARTI HU .BARI MISHKIL SE GUZARA HOTA THA . MERE HUSBAND B PRIVATE JOB HI KARTE HAI. MAI HMESHA YAHI SOCHTI THI KI SUNA HAI KI MEHNAT KA PHAL MILTA HAI .LAKIN DIN BHAR MEHNAT KER KE B MUSHKIL SE GUZARA HOTA THA. EK DIN MAI BAHUT HI PERESHAN THI KI MERI EK PURANI SAHELI JO KI CANADA MAI REHTI HAI, USKA CALL AAYA KI MAI USKE SATH WORK KARU. MAINE USKE SATH USKE KAM KARNA SHRU KIYA MERI SALARY TO DUGNI HO GAI. AB MERE GHAR MAI B KHUSHIYO KA AANA SHRU HO GAYA. JAI SANKET MOCHAN APP SAB PER AISE HI KRIPA KARE.

SHRI HANUMAN JI
ANJANI SUNU JI
VAZU PUTRA JI
MAHABALI JI
RAMESHTH JI
PHAGUNSAKH JI
PINGLAKSH JI
AMITVIKRAM JI
UDDHIKRAMAN JI
SITA SHOKVINASHAN JI
LAKSHMAN PRANDATA JI
DASGRIV DAPERHA JI

678. JAI HANUMAN

My life is going in a direction on which I have no control...Every day I have to sacrifice my self respect only for money.....which is killing me day by day.please lord hanuman help me as soon as possible...oh dear hanuman please help me.

679. jai hanuman

shri ram jai ram jai jai ram jai hanuman
hey hanuman ji mai yeh jaana chahti hu ki kya bhagwan mahavishnu ke avtar kalki kya janam le chukay hai? woh kaisay hai? mai yeh jaana chahti hu hey hanuman ji kripa kar ke mujhe bataye....
hare ram hare ram ram ram hare hare hare krishna hare krishna krishna krishna hare hare...

Setu Speaks: 
नहीं , अभी जन्म नहीं हुआ है |

680. Jai hanuman

Jai Shree Ram
Jai Hanuman ji
I am 22 years old and i am very lazy. From childhood i am living with my mother's relatives and feels like they have lead my life. I have not take any decisions in my life. From childhood i am living absent minded. My parents(relatives of mother) didn't let me mix up with same age peoples in childhood and by sitting in house most of time i was done day dreaming. I don't have good career, i dont have friends, i dont have harmony and love relatives and dont know much peoples outside relatives. Being in house most of day i started to read religious, spiritual websites and feels influenced by many things like non-attachment, bhakti, and even used to go at sahaj yoga center(with one relative who is sahaj yogi).
I am very confused right now about how should i live life, and what things am able to do. My material condition is very bad( as i am not able to take my decisions, don't have my opinions and do as some peoples tell me to do, don't have good career, and belong to poor family) In spirituality i have some practical knowledge but not able to have full faith or be with certain type of sadhana.
Please guide me.
Jay Hanuman ji

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

That can prove to be a boon if you set your life purpose as Moksha or getting supreme knowledge. It is a blessing that you are different from the crowd. Make use of it and seek the supreme truth.

Blessings


681. Jai Hanuman...

Dear knowledge giver i want to know how can i figure out on what stage my soul is to be free from any karma or desire as i am also a normal soul and living in this life of illusion. And how much my soul's bad karma is due to at least reach the karma of my soul is required to gain this knowledge directly from great Pra shakti LORD HANUMAN himself. And is there any possibility of knowing my previous birth and the purpose of this life.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If it were necessary for a human to know previous birth, we would all take birth with memory of previous births. Story of previous birth is told by sages only if it is required for world welfare. Your purpose is to get Moksha.

Blessings


682. Jai Hanuman

Thank you so much Lord Hanuman ...i did not know about this Setu Hanuman ..i should thank my brother in law who told me about this website. I have started reading the chapters just now and i feel i am blessed .. i can share this information with my husband and children.

Oh lord please always keep the bhakti of God alive in me and my family always.

Jai Shriram ..Jai Hanuman

683. Jai Hanuman

Namaste Sir/Madam,
For a long time now, I have delayed and procrastinated writing this mail. I want to visit your ashram in Pittrubhu hills, meet Lord Hanuman and get set on my journey to attain Moksha. But, I am not yet ready to leave behind my identity and all that I have considered to be mine so far. I am at the cross roads and don't know which way to take. Help me with making my decision.

Regards,

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The journey to Moksha can be started from anywhere. All you have to do is start seeking the absolute truth. All the paths will open up by itself.

If you want to do Sadhana at Setuu Hanuman Bodhi, please answer following questions :

(1) Describe your devotion towards Lord Hanuman. How it started and how it evolved over time.

(2) Have you ever met Lord Hanuman in MaanavLoka or SwapanLoka? Describe that experience. What was the conversation between you and Lord Hanuman.

(3) Who are you? If you are a soul, how far is Lord Hanuman from you. How do you think you can cover the distance between you and Lord Hanuman.

(4) What did you learn/unlearn from chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas posted so far. Write your views about each chapter.

Blessings


684. Jai Hanuman

Firstly I cant believe that my questions may get answer directly from bajranga bali I feel my self bit strange from before it was a sudden thought to read something about lord hanuman my only request is to do something for lokakalyan because today every where In the world terrorism is increasing innocents are being killed so do whatever to make this world peace
Jai Hanuman
jai hind
Bharat mata ki jai.

685. jai hanuman

muze hanumanji ko phal chadane ho to keise chadaye? mein kitane dino se try kar rahi hu. par nahi raha hein. mein jab bhi ye pehala adhyay padhti hu to muze aisa lagta hanumanji mere samne ho. aisa lagata hein is adhyay mein jo bhi likaha hein woh mere ankhon ke samne dikh raha hein. meri madad jarur kijiye.

Setu Speaks: 
आत्म स्वरूप,
राम।
अगर आप ऑनलाइन फल अर्पण नहीं कर पा रहे हैं तो आप किसी भी नजदीकी श्री हनुमान मंदिर में जाकर फल प्रसाद अर्पित कर सकते हैं। अथवा आप किसी वानर , पक्षी , गाय आदि को भी फलादि भक्षण करवा सकते हैं।
कल्याण हो।


686. Jai hanuman

Hanuman ji ki setu se jurne se pahle Mujhe sapne me charan poja aaya . Fir main apne bhaiya se batayi to bole tum setu se jur jao tumko pata chal jayega ye charan poja kya h. Fir main setu se juri or aaj tak hanuman ji ke chapter ka wait karti hun . Hanuman je ko or matango ko man hi man main pranam karti rahti hun . Mera bhi margadarshan kare .... Main bhi is sansar me jevan maran ke chakra me fashi hun ... Mujhe jo Anjali ke sarir me aarudh hai .. moksha de kar par kar do prabhu jai Shree Ram jai Shree Ram jai Shree Ram

687. JAI HANUMAN

Bajrang Bali is always with me for ever., He only protecting me and my family from the eternal evil forces. I pray lord Bajrang bali to save our country fellows and country from the rest of the workd.

May Hanuman bless all of ur

JAI BAJRANG BALI


688. jai hanuman

apaka ye dusara adhyay padhakar mauze bahot achha laga. mein jab bhi ye adhyay padhati hu maze aisa lagata hei ki sab mare aankonke samne ho raha hein. us samay mein hanuman ji ko apane samne baat karate hui paati hu. mera man shaant ho jata hein. jaise mein usnse ekroop ho rahi hu. aap ko pata hein mein her shanivaar ko hanuman mandir jaakar unhe gud aur shengdana chadhati hu aur agarbatti lagati hu. to ek din mein mandir mein pooja kar rahi thi aur aankh band kar karake unka dhyan kar rahi thi to muze unke aashirvad dete hui darshan hui. us din se mere claish thode bahut kam ho gaye hein. mein kaafi achha mehsus kar rahi hu.


689. jai hanuman

i only want to offer my prayers to hanumanji through mathangs that whenever i remember hanumanji, please he give me path to follow with sadh budhi. also i should be able to make correct decision for my family.

690. Jai Hanuman Baba

May the blessings of Shri Hanumanji always remain as umbrela on my family and keeps the mind and soule of my family clean and away from bad thoughts.

691. Jai Hanuman Gyan Gun Sagar, Jai Kapish Tihun Lok Ujagar

My immortal Lord, My God, My elder brother Mahavir Hanuman...You are the ocean of strength and kindness. Please never forget me. Keep showering your blessings, and grant me the things that I keep asking you so often. Jai Shri Ram!

692. jai hanuman gyan guna sagar jai kapeesa

it was few years back when i was crying for days and days after the demise of my beloved father who is a blessed soul of the lord, one day in the after noon i was alone in my bed room thinking of the lord suddenly i could see the lord hanuman who was near to my bed with gada blessing me. i still remember that day i just could not believe that it is him and visiting my home. may bless this world with rama bhakti to all people in this part of the world.

693. JAI HANUMAN JAI SREE RAMA

To show my gratitude i am wordless, Ignorant and and an ordinary human.

Thanks for providing an opportunity to read these chapters and making me feel lord's presence in this motherly earth. I am very lucky being on earth.

Me too wants to take a chance to make lord's Darshna if lard allow's me to do so.

JAI HANUMAN


694. JAI HANUMAN JAI SRIRAM

After Lord Hanuman entered in our lives our troubles and worries disappeared,he gave the energy and spirit to our lives.He saved us from many problems.He showed us the spiritual path and showered his love and courtesy on us in every situation. Hanuman is everything for us.We dedicate our lives to Hanuman's feet.

JAI HANUMAN JAI SRIRAM

695. Jai Hanuman Ji

Jai Hanuman,

I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for all the good things that you have given in my life. I want to remain blessed with your blessings throughout my life and all the births that I take after this. Please guide me with your light of divine blessing.

696. jai hanuman ji

jai hanuman ji...... it is very grateful, joyful and increase the faith in hanuman ji...... it`s come close to shri hanuman ji.....feel very bless to read all of it..... thanks to all to bring so lovely chapter of hanuman ji for us...........thanks a lot to all this website team.........jai hanuman ji

697. Jai Hanuman ji

Thank you so much Guru ji..

i got a job after four years.. i request you to be with me.. so that i do my job under your guidance... protect me in this alien place.

698. jai hanuman ji ki

I have read all 14 chapters and waiting for the day when next will be published and I am really thankful to you for sharing...

I have full faith in Hanuman ji and hanuman ji has helped me in various ways..Once long time back. Some one took Rs 20000 from my father and was not returning the money back.... for more than 1 year that person didn't returned the money.. We thought that we will never get the money back.. so we left the hope..
then a time came when we faced big financial crisis and I could see the tension in my fathers face,, As I was only studying in the 2nd year of Engineering ... & could not able to do any help .. I was also not feeling good.... Then one night as usually I do before sleeping ,,, I talk to Hanumanji mentally .... One thought came to my mind if that person returns the money... it will help us a lot.. So while thinking about hanuman ji ... I heard a voice mentally .. It was not actually voice but something like Hanuman Ji asked me .. He gave me 2 options

Do you want that money back from that person or Do you want to win a lottery ?
I said , I just want that the person should return the money to my father please.. and then I slept...

next morning , infact very early , when I was sleeping only, I heard someone ring the door bell, and I heard while sleeping that some one came.. I was feeling sleepy so I kept sleeping late..

But when I wake up and asked who came so early morning ,, I was shocked to know that the same person came and returned full money ..... I can't tell how I felt ,,, i was so happy to know that yesterday night it was hanuman ji who actually asked me and listened my prayer...

Its been 10 years now and I still talk to Hanumanji..... but now I dont know why I am not getting that kind of feeling that I normally had while talking to Hanuman ji..

I think I did something wrong which suddenly took him far away from me ... that makes me very sad from inside..
Please help me


699. JAI HANUMAN JI KI

NAMASTE SIR

please after reading chapter on BIRTH OF OUR SHRI RAM....i feel very light and at the same time wish to realise my soul.

Please if i offer anything to HANUMAN JI with my heart today in my local area in MANGALORE where i stay instead of online will HANUMAN JI bleesings please be there on my soul.

THANK YOU SIR
JAI JAI SHRI RAM
JAI JAI JAI SHRI RAM

JAI JAI JAI HANUMAN JI KI

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Yes, you can buy fruits anywhere and do arpanam. Prefer a temple where Vaanaras are present and the priest is skilled enough to do the Arpanam rightly. Otherwise do Arpanam at home and feed the fruits to Vaanaras, kids or Daridra Narayanas.

Blessings


700. JaI Hanuman Veer bajrangbali jai Shree Ram

Ye adhyay padhkar dil ko bahut sukun mila , aur ye ahsaas hua ki prabhu hamare aas paas hi hai , aur bahut jaldi mere bhi dukho ka nivaran karenge , aur agar mujhse koi galti hui hai ,ya me kuch galat kar rahi hu to mujhe sahi raasta dikhyenge. bus itni hi prarthna hai ki hey prabhu hum par apna aashirwaad sadev banaye rakhna.

701. Jai Hanumanji

Jai Hamumanji, Jai Bajrangballi,

Apka Ashirdad Hamare Uppar Sadhai Bani Rahe.

Jai Hanumanji

702. Jai Hanumanji

Hari Om,Jai Hanumanji,i have experienced hanumanji throughout my life every moment lord is with me and my family and each and every person in this world,whatever is good for me and my family lord does it very smothly.

whatever happens good or bad we have to face,but lord does it such a way that i have never felt bad days going off so smoothly,my daughter went for picnic and there many monkeys were troubling all her friends and she got so frightened she just closed her eyes and prayed hanumanji u won't believe non of the monkeys came close to her infact all her friends were saying we will stand with u so that they won't come near to them,these r small incidents but i ca only say lord is with us and we wish lord be with us thru out our life.

703. jai hanumanji ki

ॐ
बुद्धिहीन तनु जानिके, सुमिरो पवन कुमार
बल ,बुदधि विद्या देहु मोय हरहुँ कलेश विकार

704. jai hanumanji ki

mene apne jivan me 16 saal tak roj hanumanji ke mandir me 11 diye lagaye kya ye shri hanumanji jantey hai kya meri puja safal hui ya nahi kya hanumanji kuch muze batayege kuch krapa karenge

Setu Speaks: 
आपकी पूजा से आपको मात्र यह सफलता मिली है कि आपको मोक्ष का मार्ग दिखाई दे गया है | लाखों आत्माएं जो अब भी इधर उधर भटक रही हैं उनसे अलग होकर आप मोक्ष के मार्ग के बिलकुल सामने आ गए हैं | अब आपको मोक्ष के मार्ग पर अपना सफ़र शुरू करना है | हनुमान जी द्वारा की गई कलियुगी लीलाओं को पढ़कर ज्ञान प्राप्त करें और मोक्ष की ओर बढ़ें |

705. JAI HANUMANT BABA

I AM INTOUCH WITH HANUMANT BABA FROM SO MANY YEARS - RESULTING GOT EVERYTHING ACCORDING TO MY REQUIREMENT BUT WHY ... AM NOT ESTABLISH MYSELF YET BY HEART MOST OF MY COLLEGUES ARE FRASTRATING FROM ME DUE TO WILL OR HONESTY.... BABA KNOWS HOW LONG I SURVIVE IN THIS WAY.... NOW I WANT TO DO SOMETHING I.E. NOT ONLY FULL FILL MY REQUIREMENTS BUT SOME SOULS.... BABAJI KNOW WHEN TIME CAME.. BUT SOME TIME I AM TOTALLY DISTURBED WHO AM I AM ONLY FOR ROUTINE WORK NOTHING ELSE. I AM NOT ABLE TO DO SOMETHING DIFF. FOR COMING GENERATION - GOD CHILDS FOR THEIR BEST/BRIGHT FUTURE BY WAY OF XXX - PRAY TO ME FOR THIS WHEN I AM ABLE TO DO SOMETHING................ LIKE THIS.... MY ALL THE NEARER DEARER ALWAYS LOOKING FOR ME FOR MONEY/HELP I WILL TRYING MY BEST TO DO BUT ACCORDING TO MY SOUL I.E. NOT SUFFICIENT .. GOD HELP ME TO FULLFILL SOUL VOICES......

JAI SHRI RAM.... JAI HANUMANT BABA KI

706. Jai Hanumant Baba Ki

Hanumant baba - bless us to enjoy this yug life with all needs i.e. for us - ours - nearer & dearer or who'r not capable to even reach you baba ji by this way or bhagti....

707. Jai Hanumant Baba Ki

Hanumant Baba always help me all the times - as & when am feeling alone. From the age of 13 yrs. I devote my self to Baba ji but after a long time baba ji help me in unseen form. Hanumant baba bless my or my dearer/nearer soul as well this maturloka.... rqmts. in all respect.

Jai Shri Ram......

Rakesh Kumar Dhiman

708. JAI HANUMANT BABA KI

JAI SHRI RAM - JAI HANUMANT BABA I AM ALWAYS PRAY TO MY NEARER/DEARER THEY GOT YOUR BLESSING.... WHEN THEY WRONG DILUTE THEIR THOUGHT OR SHOW RIGHT PATH OF LIFE......SOUL... GAVE ME POWER TO FULL FILL COMING CHALLENGES I.E. RELATING MY FAMILY OR DEARERS BY WAY OF FINANCE.... WEALTH & HEALTH.....

709. jai hunaman

iam very happy to know about lord hanuman im played in his temple in my child hood. he is my hero in any criyical situation. plz bless with me braveness and be with me always

710. jai hunuman

Prbhu aapki krpa se sb kam ho rhe hai....aap ka aashirwad bnaye krna..

711. jai hunuman

vai se to hum aam aadmi hai aagar hunumanji ki krupa ho jay to jindgi sawar jaegi jaise post padh raha hu ,tabse duniya ajib lag rahi hai ,jaise sansar abhi nasta ho jayega aur aakash me moksya ke aabhilasi jiv(aatmaye) ka samuh hunumanji ke charno me jama huy hai sab kuch aanand sa lag raha hai

712. Jai hunumanji

Thank u hanumanji for everything and please be with me n guide me. Bless me n my family and answer all my prayers.Please make me strong to face all my problems confidently...jai sankatmochan hanumanji

713. Jai Jai Hanuman ji

Hanuman ji , I'm writing this to you, specifically to you alone...You had helped me to overcome a situation which you know very well, yes, it's my great career change...Thank you so much Hanumanji to making this...I was astounded by this change and before any step that I'm taking you are giving more blessing, and also some difficulty in attaining that change...give me more blessings my respectful lord...Make the world peaceful...like your heart...Jai Hanuman

Om shree vajradehaya ramabhakthaya vayuputhraya namosthuthe!!!

714. JAI JAI JAI HANUMAN GUSAI, KRIPA KARO GURUDEV KI NAHI

I HAVE BLIND FAITH ON HANUMAN JI, WHENEVER I HAVE FACED PROBLEM OR BAD TIME HE ALWAYS GIVE THE MIRACLE DIRECTIONS..... TO ME. EVEN I M NOT ABLE TO DISCRIBE HOW IT WAS....BUT I ALWAYS BELIEVE THAT HE IS ALWAYS WITH ME... AND WATCHING ME PROPERLY.... BUT I M NOT CLEAN FROM MY HEART TO SEE HANUMAN JI . AND I PRAY TO HANUMAN JI THAT MAKE ME SO CLEAR TO SEE YOU AND MAKE MY LIFE FRUITFUL TO HELP THE NATURE AS WELL AS SOCIETY.. AND ALWAYS PRAY TO HANUMAN JI THAT YOU R MY GURU AND IN EVERY BIRTH YOU WILL BE MY ONLY GOD N GURU IN EVERY LIFE TILL THE MOKSHA. WHICH EVERY SPRIT WILLGET AFTER THOUSANDS OF BIRTHS WITH HELP OF OUR GURU KRIPA. SO IN LAST ..... HANUMAN IS MY BREATH...MY EVERYTHING.....JAI SHREE RAM....

715. jai jai siya ram

mai daily hanuman ji ka puja karta hu ...daily sunderkand ka path karta hu ....jis jagah pr mere ghar me hanuman ji ki pratima hai aur mai waha pr paath karta hu ..waha pr thik pratima ke upar deewaal pr 2 pairo ke nishan bn gaye hai

716. JAI LORD HANUMAN

i have seen lord hanuman and feel in last night. i am so tired to collect money for my daughter marriage i have still not found way. now the lord hanumanji give me new tricks to get money i also beliefs that the lord hanumanji will solve my problem and i am also again with my family My family and all the other relation persons are ignoring me. i am now doing parthna from lord hanumanji for solve my problem vikram

jai shri ram

717. jai sankat mochan

jai bajrangbali hamara pranam sweekar kariye .humare poore parivar per apni kripa banaye rakhiye.humari pooja sweekar kariye. hume charnoon mein rakhiye.

718. Jai Seeta Ram Jai Hanuman

Oh Lord Hanuman I am alive today because of you.You know my past, present and future, you are aware of all my hardships and you know that is all I had until now. Please give me sucess, speed and courage. Please allow me to bask in your love. I have some unfulfilled desires still in my heart. I think of you as my guru and father. Please fulfill my hearts desire which you know you I have praying for a long time now,please clear the accumulated karmas and destroy some unwanted habits I wish to get rid of, change my life and help me to break the wheel of repeated birth and death help me to reach the abode Lord Narayana and serve him there. Finally I would pray to you that please donot give anybody tough times I had to go through, Love you very Much Hanuman ji

Setu Speaks: 
--- Conveyed to the Lord ---


719. Jai Shree Hanuman

Dear Friends,

U all pray to lord hanuman he vill solve all your problems 100%, your family will become happy
ur bad habilts vill automatly we go even i was have bad habits , after praying him i left all bad habits do good things god vill help u may god bless u all friends Hare Krishna Hare Rama Jai Shree Hanuman.

720. Jai Shree Hanuman Jai Bajrangbali

Bajrangbali ko antrman se yad karna hi apne aap me ek sukhad anubhav hai..

721. Jai Shree Raam

Jai Shree Raam Jai Baba ki

I am thankfull to all who updates this. This one is so good. I hope you will keep updating such type of Hanuman Gath.
Jai Bajrangbali


722. jai shree ram

" jai shree Ram"
"anubhav ye he ki yaha sansaar bhi bhram or ek sapana he jab kabhi ese hi hanuman ji roopi paramaatma ki kripa kisi shuddh aatma pe hoti he to uske sare bharmo ka sare agyan ka saari maya moha ka ek jese chutkaro hoker jese ye sab 6od ker bus kewal parmatma hamare liye h or hum parmatama ke liye h sab kuch parmatma he esa anbhuv hota he or atmicgyan or param shanti ka anbhuv hota jeewan or parmaatma ke beech ka yatharth anubhav hota he


723. Jai shree ram

mere jeevan ka kya objective hai? main apne mann pe apni icchaoo pe chaha kar bhi control nahi kar paa raha hu.. mujhe moksha chaiye apne samast pap karmo se mukti chaiye.Is jeeven ko bhi main acche se jeena chahtha hu sath hi chahta hu ki koi galat karm mere dwara nahi ho... kalyug main samjh hi nahi aata ki sahi karam or galat karm kaun se hai..

Hanuman ji ka aashirwwad, unka pyar chaaiye.... Kripa karke mere kashto ka samdhan kar or moksha ka adhikari banayee... saath hi hanuman ji ke darshan bhi karna chahtha hu...

main bahut confuse hu.. agar confusion main kuch atpata ya galat likha gaya ho tu shama...

Jai siya ram...

Setu Speaks: 
श्री हनुमान जी को अपना गुरु बनाइये। वे मातंगो के गुरु हैं और उनकी नई पीढ़ियों को हर 41 साल बाद आकर आत्म ज्ञान का बोध कराते हैं। अगर आप हनुमान जी को अपना गुरु मानकर उनके द्वारा की गई लीला और उनके द्वारा बोले गए शब्दों को ध्यान से पढ़ेंगे तो आपको भी आत्म ज्ञान का बोध होगा और आपको सही गलत कर्मों का ज्ञान भी होगा और श्री हनुमान जी भी आपको अवश्य दर्शन देंगे।
मंगल कामनाये


724. Jai shree RAM

Thank you oh my Lord RAM Bhakta Hanuman Dada for your grace upon us all. Please continue to instill BHAKTI in us always & forever. Like you we strive to do Lord RAM work thru your presence.

Jai shree RAM Jai shree RAM Jai shree RAM jia shree RAM jai shree RAM jai shree RAM


725. Jai Shree Ram

Jai shree Ram,

My name is Dilip from India. I am a huge follower and Bhakth of Vishnu. I read bhagavad gita and follow on its guidance.

I am suffering in my life both financially, professionally and related to family. I don't know if it is due to my sins or god is testing me.

I am 28 years old and unsuccessful financially. I believe god knows what is my problem. Because I believe god knows more about our problems more than I know, because I am part of his soul. He is a supreme soul.

Today, I decided that I will live each and every moment of my life remembering him. No matter I am successful or not.

I never met lord hanuman or experienced him. But I believe in him. I heard that hanuman helps those who come under Lord Krishna's shelter.

I hope he helps me in my life making it successful for my family. It doesn't matter if he helps or not. I dedicate my life and mind to lord Krishna.

I gamble my life. I bet on Vishnu. God help me. I committed my life to you. Its my promise.

Jai shree ram. I will live seriously under your teachings. Its my promise.


726. jai shree RAM

Felt like crying After reading (understanding) the thoughts..my innersoul has started to talk with my brain evrsince I completed chapters..is it real or just my own reality?Why would I wish for anything When nothing is in real !! BT yes there is somewhere deep inside me..I have some feeling for Something (wish or something else, I don't know exactly, what it is..)want to express,say,show,or to be fulfilled..to lord..BT what it is..I have no clue..I don't know what is that..


727. jai shree ram

mujhe pls pls pls hanuman bhagwan Ji ke darshan karwa dijiye . mai hanuman Ji ko apna bada bhaai maanti hu , please mujhe mere bhai se milwa dijiye.
Jai Shree Ram
Jai hanuman Ji

728. JAI SHREE RAM

Jai Bajarangee,
App ki kripa se sab theek hote ja raha hai aur zeevan kee pareshaniya kuch kam hot ja rahee hai, kripa kar ke muzhe iss yogya banaye ki mai aap ka darshan prapt kar sakoon.
Sambhav ho asake to muzhe apana shishya sweekar keejiye koi galati ho to chama keejiye.

!!Jai Shree Ram!!


729. jai shree ram

I have read all chapter of log book. I think that these word is said by hanuman ji which is written by matang people.
and i am filling that i have fullfill from brahmgyan.

730. Jai Shree Ram

Prabhu mane na to kuchh naya sikha na hi kuchh naya paya. parantu kuchh aisa jaroor mahsoos hua jise mai shabdo mai bayan nahi kar sakta. lekin mere maan mai nai chetna jaroor jagi hai. lekin fir mai ye jaroor kahuga ki mai apne man ki dashha apke samachha nahi rakh pa raha hoo.

jai shree ram, jai shree ram jai shree ram jai shree ram jai shree ram jai shree ram jai shree ram.

731. Jai shree Ram

मेरे प्रभु श्री हनुमान जी को मेरा साष्टांग प्रणाम, बाबा मातंग जी को मेरा कोटि कोटि प्रणाम।
मेरा प्रश्न यह कि अध्याय 3 में जैसा की श्री हनुमान जी और काल देवता आदि के मध्य जो वार्तालाप का वर्णन किया गया है। उस समय तो मतांगो में से वहां कोई नहीं था तो फिर इस वार्तालाप का वर्णन मतांगो ने अपनी लोग बुक में कैसे किया।
क्या श्री हनुमान जी ने इस वार्तालाप का वर्णन लॉगबुक में करने को कहा था?
कृपया स्पष्ट करें।

जय श्री राम।।

Setu Speaks: 
लोग बुक में अंकन चरण पूजा शुरू होने के पश्चात् शुरू होता है जो छ्टे अध्याय से शुरू होता है | जिसे भी अंकन की जिम्मेदारी मिलती है उसे हनुमान जी जिम्मेदारी निभाने में मदद करते हैं और सभी वार्तालाप अंकित करवाते हैं |

||राम||

732. Jai Shree Ram

Whenever i am reading Hanuman Chalisa for 101 or 111 or 121 or 151 times i am always feeling myself so much comfortable and free from worries. Its Hanuman who gives me power to face all challenges and also make me strong. Jai Shre Ram. My query to Loard Hanuman is that when shall i get the salary package of my dream in order to meet with the needs of my parents? When shall i get marry with the girl of my choice? When my best friend will come back to me? Please

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

There are obstacles. Lord Hanuman can hit those obstacles but you are glued to those obstacles. If He tries to hit the obstacles, you shall get hit. Therefore you need to first detach yourself from the obstacles and leave them aside so that Lord Hanuman can hit them. The solution is: Be happy with whatever you are right now at present moment. Be grateful for what you have at this moment. When this gratefulness comes in your soul, the obstacles shall get detached from you and all your wishes shall get fulfilled.

Blessings


733. || JAI SHREE RAM || ~ ॥ जय श्री राम ॥

॥ जय श्री राम ॥

हे प्रभु!,

भारतवर्ष के गुजरात राज्य के राजकोट शहर से श्री हनुमानजी के चरणों में
इस आत्मा का प्रणाम स्वीकार करें।

सेतु वेबसाइट पर हनुमानजी से साक्षात्कार होने के बाद इस आत्मा के ऊपर से
बहत सारे परत हट चुके है।

त्रिशंकु के इस संसार - भ्रम में तड़पती हुई ये आत्मा अब केवल मुक्तिसागर
मात्र की और आगे बढ़ने हेतु श्री हनुमानजी का मार्गदर्शन और सहाय की आश
लिए ये प्रार्थना कर रही है, कृपया इस आत्मा को भी सेतु के ऋषिमुनियों के
नेतृत्व में श्री हनुमानजी के चरणों में तपस्या करने का मार्गदर्शन करें।

सागर नाम के इस देह और आत्मा का प्रणाम स्वीकार करें।

॥ जय श्री राम ॥

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

अगर आप साधना की इच्छा रखते हैं तो कृपा अपने परिवार के बारे में लिखिए | क्या आप सभी पारिवारिक जिम्मेदारिओं से मुक्त हैं ? क्या आपका स्वास्थ्य कठोर साधना के लिए उचित है ? हनुमान जी के साथ अपनी आत्मा के सम्बन्ध के बारे में लिखिये और ये भी कि आपने हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के हर अध्याय से क्या सीखा और क्या अनसीखा |

||राम||


734. jai shree ram

Jai Shree Ram,

Hi,i wanted to ask many questions but the first one that comes into my mind is how can i feel Lord Hanuman's Presence.I believe he is in this world but i want to experience his presence so that what i believe can become an experience. Please,Tell me the way which a middle class ignorant human being can follow.

JAI SHREE RAM

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Supreme knowledge is the only way. Make Moksha purpose of your life and read Lord Hanuman's Leelas being posted here. You will meet Lord Hanuman on the way to Moksha.

Blessings

735. Jai Shree Ram

Mene aaj first lesson padha mujhe acha laga.. Mere jivan me mujhe samjh nahi aa raha ki me kya karu ya kya karuga.. Me bus ye chahta hu ki HANUMAN ji mera marg dharshan kare or apna ashirwad de taki mere jivan ki samashayo ka samadan ho or me apne sansarik jimedariyo ko nibhate hue moksha pau..

736. Jai shree ram Ajani Purtra

when ever i will read Hanuman Chalisha in the morning or Evening i will fee easy of my life i have lost wife she will not hearing our voice but now she will always follow our word some obstacle may be in work but i trust Hanuman Jee will do everything which ever i want to became my self our aim to became own work and i am boss i also want became a great political person which have power in center rule i want help the people which need

737. jai shree ram jai bajrang bali..

ATULIT BALDHAMAM HEM SAEILA BHADHEM ,
DANUJVAM KRASHANUM GYANINAMARGANDHAYAM,
SHAKALGUN NIDHANAM VAANRANAAM DHISHAM,
RAGHUPATI PRIYE BHAKTAM VAATJAATAM NAMAAMI..

Ram Ram Guruji,

mai pichle kuch varson se hanuman ji ki puja se juda hua hun virat bhi rakhen h 21 manglvaar or har roj subhah hanuman chalisa, shree bajrang ban, shree ram stuti or hanuman aarti ka path karta hun. har mangalvaar ko hanuman mandir jaata hun ghar ke paas me h. or 3 baar hanuman ji ka balaji ke name se mandir h mehndipur rajsthan me vahan bhi gaya hun or ek baar shree salasar balaji rajsthan ke mandir bhi gaya hun bahut hi sukh milta h or mann ko shanti milti h..
pichle kuch mahino se maine sham ko 9:15 baje sarson ke tel ke dipak me 2 long dal kar jalana shuru kiya h or hanuman chalisa or hanuman aarti ka path karta hun or har mangalwaar ko delhi me hanuman ji ka balakpan ka prachin mandir h vahan jaata hun or sundar kand ka path karta hun..
kabhi kabhi jab hanuman ji ko yaad karta hun to meri aankhen bhar aati mann me bhut bechaini ho jaati h mannkarta h ke abhi apne prabhu ke paas chala jaon or vo apne gale se ek baar laga len to saare dukh dard sb dur ho jaye..
mai hanuman ji puja se or bhi adhik judna chahta hun or ek prashan mere mann me setu k tino adhyaye ko padte samay aaya h ..k mai apne prabhu ki puja me koi galti to nahi karta?
mai hanuman ji se or adhik judna chahta hun kya MATANG humen bata sakte h k is se adhik or kaise prabhu hanuman ji se juda jaa sakta h or meri puja me koi galti to nahi ho rahi or agar koi galti ho rahi h to hum use kis prakar sudhar sakte h?
mera ek prashan apne pariwaar ko lekar bhi h..
humara pariwaar sadharan pariwaar h bhohot mehnat karne k baad bhi hume kuch acha fal nahi milta maa ki tabiyat aksar kharab rehti h karz bhi bhut ho chuka sabhi log puja path karte h par koi shubh fal prapt nahi ho pa raha h apne jeevan ko sudharne k lye kon kon se upaye hum kare jis se hanuman ji ki krapa se humara jeevan dhanaye sake??
hanuman ji kripa pane k liye or kis tarah ki puja path ki sakti h krpiya karke batane ka kast karen..kehne or puchne ko to bhut kuch h hanuman ji se par inhi sawalon ka uttar mil jaye to bhi unki ati kripa hogi...
JAI SHREE RAM
JAI BAJRANG BALI HANUMAN..
OM HUM HANUMATYE RUDRATMAKAAYE HUM FAT SWAHA

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मा ,

आपकी पूजा में कोई गलती नहीं है किन्तु आपके मन में हमेशा भय सा बना रहता है | अर्थात भय नाम का दानव आपके हृदय में बैठा रहता है | या तो अपने हृदय में भय को ही स्थान दिजिय या प्रभु हनुमान को ही | हृदय आपका है इसलिय आपको ही तय करना है कि आप अपने हृदय में किसे स्थान देना चाहते हैं |

अपने हृदय से सभी प्रकार के भाई निकाल दीजीय फिर सब कुछ अच्छा होगा |

|| राम ||


738. Jai Shree Ram - Jai Hanuman

Shree Hanumante Namah. Mujhe abhi tak apne jeevan me lakshay prapti nahi hui hai. Me apne jeevan me samaj seva karna chahta hu. Uske liye mujhe dhan ki avshyakta hai. Me dhan apni kabiliyat se kamana chahta hu. Me business karna chahta hu dhan kamane ke liye. Mujhe abhi tak saftla nahi mili. Me nirash nahi hu. Bajarang Bali ko khub manta hu.

Setu Speaks: 
अपनी प्रार्थना को थोडा सरल बनाएं | पूरे समाज का तो शायद इतना भाग्य न हो | अपने भाग्य को समाज के भाग्य के साथ मत जोडीये | सीधी सी प्रार्थना कीजिये - "हे प्रभु , मेरी आवश्यकताएं पूरी करो |"

अगर आप पूरे समाज को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल कर रहे हैं तो पूरे समाज के बुरे कर्मो का फल भोगने को भी तैयार रहें |

739. Jai Shree Ram Jai Hanuman

i belive my god Hanuman he will clear all your sarrows in your life, he is powerfull lord after praying him he help u in any problem which you stuck in your life, Jai Shree hanuman,
I love him very much, belive him 100 %, after praying him u will leave your bad habits automatically its 100 % sure, even i have left all bad habits after praying lord hanuman Jai Shree Hanuman and go to hanuman temple Tuesday and Saturday pray him he vill help your problem jai hanuman Jai Shree Ram.

740. jai shree RAM jai ho maa sita maa

prabhu mere ghar me meri or mere bade bhai ki job hi nhi lg rhi or kuch bhi accha hi nhi hota.
hme hmare sins ke liye maaf krna prabhu.
aap,pura ram parivaar or sbhi matang always khush rhe or acche se rhe
prabhu Ram ji or Maa Sita ji ke charno me pranaam

Setu Speaks: 
निम्न 4 बातों का ख्याल रखें -
(1) आप में अपने लक्ष्य को पूरा करने की तीव्र इच्छा होनी चाहिए |
(2) उन इच्छाओं को पूरा करने के लिए आवश्यक प्रयास करें अन्यथा आपकी आत्मा उन लक्ष्यों को इस संसार में पूरा करने की बजाय स्वपन लोक में पूरे कर लेगी |
(3) अपने दिल दिमाग में “भय” “चिंता” आदि नाम के असुरों को जगह न बनाने दे अन्यथा हनुमान जी को लगेगा कि आप उनकी बजाय असुरों को अपने दिल दिमाग में रखना पसंद करते हैं | बाधाएं दूर करने के लिए हनुमान जी की सहायता प्राप्त करने के लिय यह अति आवश्यक है |
(4) अपनी प्रार्थना को सरल रखें | अपनी प्रार्थना अपने और प्रभु के बीच रहने दें उसमे आप परिवार , समाज तथा अन्य लोगो को शामिल न करें | सही प्रार्थना - “हे प्रभु मेरी आवश्यकताए पूरी करें ताकि मै मोक्ष के मार्ग पर चल सकूँ |” गलत प्रार्थना - “मेरे जीवन में फलां व्यक्ति को ले आयें , मेरे परिवार को ऐसा करें , मेरे समाज को ऐसा करें|” आप जितने लोगो को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल करेंगे उतने लोगो के कर्म रोड़ा बनते जायेंगे | आपके कर्मों के रोड़े काफी हैं , किसी अन्य के रोड़े मत लायें | जब आपकी इच्छा पूरी होगी तो आपके आस पास के लोगो को खुद ब खुद सहायता मिलेगी |


741. Jai shree Ram Ram Ram

I am lots of happy so much happy very very thanku only once meet in hanumanji and bholanath pls my request send it pls pls pls jai hanuman jai shree ram jai sita maiya jai bholanath jai parvati mata

742. jai shree ram....jai hnuman

adyay 1 ko ped ker muje adbhut shanti ka eshas hua ...esa lga jese shri hnuman swaym mere se batchit ker rahe ho..me hanuman ji ka bakt hu ...or Setuu dwara is adyay ko ped ker muje hanuman ji per purn viswas hai ki hanuman ji jivan me ane wali smasyao ka ssamna kerne me meri shayata jarur kernge....
bolo veer hanuman ki jai
pawansut hnuman ki jai..

Setu Speaks: 
Blessings, Rajesh.


743. Jai Shree Sita Ram, Jai Hanuman Baba

Baba hanumanji apna aashirwad mere parivar par banaye rakhen. Aabhari setuu aap ne babahanumanji ji se judne ka rasta bataya. Dhanyawad. Baba Hanumanji apni KRIPA hamesha ham par banaye rahen.

744. Jai shri Hanuman.

I am currently undergoing a tough time after i lost my job 1.5 months back . If i go through the reasons of my job lost ,i thought why this happened with no fault of mine...
Then after reading the chapter ,i realized that life is full of bad & good phases like the bad & good illusions as mentioned by shri bajrangbali . So now am feeling little relieved that whatever happens it is for a good cause ,as designed by god.
I have no fear now of what will happen in future w.r.t my career ,left everything to lord hanuman & putting my best efforts.
I have gone through many bad phases followed by good phases afterwards.
My brother is having no child even after 10 years. I pray may he be blessed with child with kind blessings of shri hanuman.

Thanks.
Abhishek G.

745. Jai shri Hanuman ji ki

Setuu ke matang se mera nivedan hai humko abhi tak Hanuman ji ka 36 pankit ke mantra me abhi 3 panktiya mile hai krpya ageki panktiya dene ki krpa Karen Hanuman ji ka chota sa bhakt Ashish Mishra (Vaibhav)

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

कृपा उचित समय का इन्तजार करें |

||राम||

746. JAI SHRI HANUMAN,JAI SHRI RAAM,SITA RAM LAKSHMAN HANUMAN

Dear GOD Hanuman, Thank you for blessing me to find this site. I sincerely apologise for all my wrong doings and seek your guidance and help. I sincerely seek you and hope that you take away all my worries and problems. Help me in finding new employment soon

747. Jai Shri Hanuman.....Om Ramaya Namaha...Jai Shri Ram

#49968

After reading this disclosure i further gained strenght to my thought that I am the soul, the Aansh of Shri Hari which has come to this imortal world to full fill the Karmas which have been due from previous live forms. But till today in this life I may have done some karmas which were not to be done just by ignorance or lack of knowledge.

But I have a strong belief and determination that the day when I will leave this body i would work to dissolve all my bad karmas by the grace & krappa of shri hari and you hanumanji. It may be the reason that out of crores of people on this earth i got connected to you thru this site and came to know the divine knowlede thru Matangas.

Do shore your grace , love and blessings to me and my family. Also help me towards achieving my life goal of removing bad karmas and gaining gaining Moksha.

Do send me the further Mantra lines

Om hanumantayee Namaha... Jai Jai Shri Hari.

748. jai shri raaammmmmmmmmmmm

bachpan se hi mera antar aatma devi shaktiyo ki taraf aakarshit hoti rahi hai.in devi devtaao ke bare main janne aur padhane par muze aisa aabhaas hota tha ki yeh sabhi mere aas paas hi hai.jab main chota tha too ek baar main ne supne main bhagwaan hanumaan ji apni gada ke saath aakash main bhraman karte dekha.subha main jab need se jaga too sab se pehle apni mata ko iss ke bare main batya.mata ne kaha ki aasie supne kisi ko batate nahi kyon ki phir bhagwaan aap ko dsarshan nahi detey. uss din ke baad kabhi veer bajrangi ke darshan nahi huye.

lekin aaj bhi unse milne ko mera maan baar baar karta hai.lekin muze yeh bhi pata ki unke darshan ke liye hazaar karoor tap karne parge apni aatma ko sudh karna padega,jo ki abhi nahi hai aur pata nahi ki iss janam main hogi yaan nahi.kyon ki har insaan ko yeh maloom hota ki uss ke andhar satvik birti kitni hai aur tamsik birti kitni hai.

tamsik birti ka lesh matar bhi na hona hi bhagwaan ko paaney ka pehla charan hai.

hai veer bajrangi muz par kirpa kare., taan jo jiwan ke aanth tak kabhi na kabhi aap ke dashan kar sako... issi aas ke saath aapko koti koti namshkar

749. jai shri raam

jai hanuman mujhey sadbudhi dey

Setu Speaks: 
आत्म स्वरुप ,

आप हनुमान जी से कुछ और न मांगकर सदबुद्धि मांग रहे हैं इसी से जाहिर होता है कि आपमें सदबुद्धि है। जो सज्जन सदबुद्धि धारण किए हो , वही सज्जन अन्य वस्तुओं की क्षण भंगुरता को समझ सकता है।

राम।

750. jai Shri RAAM

Continued from #513356
Mai Varanasi , Uttar Pradesh,India se hu. Mai 16 saal ka hu. Mai class 11 me padhta hu aur mai ek hindu hu.

Hanumaan Ji se mera bahut gahra connection hai... mujhe hamesha lagta hai ki Hanumaan ji mere sath hai. mujhe aisa lagta hai ki ve mere saath hamesha rahte hai... aisa lagta ki we mere mastishqa me hai...
mujhe bachpan me kahi akele rahane me dar lagta tha. mujhe andhere me dar lagta tha..
par ab mujhe kisi bhi chiz se dar nahi lagta.. kyu ki ab lagta hai ki Hanumaan ji mere pas hai.
ab mujhe bilkul bhi dar nhi lagta.
mujhe hanuman ji ke sakshat darshan ab tak to nahi hue hai...
par shayad 1 month pahile eisa sapne me hua tha ..hum yaad karne ki kaafi koshish par vo mujhe yaad nahi aa rha ... fir bhi us din hme aisa lagta hai ki shayad ek jhalak hume hanuman ji ki mili thi... mai thik se kah nhi sakta...

maine ab tak ke 11 chapters ko bahut hi dhyaan se pdha hai aur kai baar pda hai...
adhyaay 1me maine pda ki Kaise Hanumaan Ji ne sucheta vicheta ke yaad ke yaado se leela ki... Hanuman ji kisi ke bhi yaaddadh ko bdal sakte hai... ye maine jaana

chapter 3 me kaal ka gyan hu. ki kaal kya hota hai aur ve kaam kaise krte hai...
4 me Vishnulok ke rahasya ka pta chala ki kya hai vaha
5ve me hanuman ji ne urmi se btaya ki kaise atma kuch samay ke liye apni deh chod kr anya deh dharan kr sakti hai
6ve sur asur ka rahasya ka pta laga.. aur ve kaise kaam krte hai
7ve me ye gyan tha ki insaan ki vastavikta hi ek matra vastavikta nahi hai... ve jo dekh sakte hai .. vohi ek matra vastavikta nahi hai...
8ve me pataal ka gyan tha jiska mujhe bilkul gyan nahi tha...
9ve me yeh tha ki kaise ram ji ne leela ki aur kaise setu ka nirmaan hua... aur ye pta lga ki pataal lok se sirf hamara bhutkaal hi prabhavit hota hai aur hmara lok se patal ka bhavisya hi prabhavit ho sakta hai
10 ve chapter me astitwa ka gyan tha...
11 me karma aur iccha ka gyan tha
maine sabhi 11 adhyayo ko ache se pdha hai... aur thik thik samjha hai.
kripya mujhe btaye ki mai pahuchu... kya iska koi fees b lagega... agar ha to plz btaye ki fees kitni hogi... aur baki jaroori information btaye....
aur kripya mujhe jaldi reply kijiyega....
kya itna thik hai

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

ये बताइये कि आपके परिवार में कौन कौन हैं ? क्या आप परिवार की सभी जिम्मेदारियों से मुक्त हैं ? आपकी उम्र 18 साल से नीचे हैं , अतः आप स्वयं अपने निर्णय नहीं ले सकते | आपके निर्णय आपके माता पिता अथवा सरक्षक लेंगे | कृपा उनके बारे में बताएं |

फीस तो कोई नहीं है किन्तु साधक को यात्रा आदि का खर्च स्वयं उठाना पड़ता है | वीसा के अलावा पिदुरु पर्वत पर रहने के लिए स्थानीय प्रशासन से भी विशेष अनुमति लेनी पड़ती है | यहाँ का प्रशासन श्री लंका सेना के हाथ में है | 18 साल से कम उम्र के साधक के लिए अनुमति मिलना कठिन होगा |

|| राम ||


751. jai shri ram

yah ek nishint kar dena wala anubhav hai jo ki sabhi ko prapt karna chahiye jisse wah apni ikchaon ko bhool kar bhakti awam kartawya maarg par agrasit ho jisse na kewal uska apitu uske purvaj tatha uski aane wali peedhi ka b bhala hoga
jai shri ram
jai bagrang bali

752. jai shri ram

bhaiyo aap kafi achha kary kr rhe ho ye sansarik log shri hanuman ja miharaj ki shakti ko bhulte ja rhe h..

may god bless u..

jai shri ram

753. JAI SHRI RAM

JAI JAI JAI BAJRAG BALI
JAI SHRI RAM
MATA AJANA KE LAL
KESRI NANDAN
PAWAN PUTRA
MATA SITA KA PATA LAGANE WALE
LAXMAN KE PRAN BACHANE WALE
SANKAT MOCHAN
DIN DUKIYO KE DATA
JAI VEER HANUMA
JAI SHRI RAM

754. Jai Shri Ram!

Jai Shri Ram!

I have read the chapters today in a few hours. To do this itself was a blessing!

Lord Vishnu in His present Kalki avatar (Yes He is already here I believe) has sent me to His Supreme and All powerful Bhakt for further knowledge to seep in!

755. Jai Shri Ram!!!

Dear Setuu,

Thank you for the 14th chapter.

My humble Parnams to Hanumanta!!

I have many questions to ask. Thank you for the answers in advance.

I want to know how will a soul choose a body since its birth?

How will it choose a specific family, region and religion?

Will the soul have same karma and desires irrespective of the body it is in?

How to tell if the bad things we are experiencing in life are due to karma or due to assurahs?

Do Gods from other religions exist? How did other religions come into existence? Are Gods from other religions are also avatar of the Supreme Lord Vishnu?

Currently humans have over populated the planet. We are causing deforestation, global warming, pollution and more.. Are the natural calamities resulting in death of humans a way to bring back the balance? Is it done by Lord Shiva?

How to avoid assurahs from affecting our loved ones? Can our prayers help our family and loved ones?

Thank you for your protection and guidance Anjaneya!!!

Thank you Mathangs and Setuu.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Karma-desire of a soul determines the body it shall take or the coordinates of space-time it shall ride. Some advanced souls can change their Karma-desire on their will and hence can take up any body they want.

This world is basically an illusion. Your point of view is completely different from point of view of some another soul who is experiencing this illusion from another coordinates of space-time. Your illusion is as good as illusion of others. The truth lies beyond the illusion of space time. The truth is same but it's manifestation in the space-time varies depending on the point of observation in space-time. Hence different point of views and different religions and different names.

Lord Kalki is coming soon to transform the world from KaliYuga to Satyuga. All this Global warming etc, is sign of end of Kaliyuga.

Blessings

756. Jai Shri Ram

I am here to write my experience after reading the chapters but i am getting blank mind to put down any word as i could only feel the experience.But I am feeling so grateful to read these chapters.Chapters that reveal the absolute truth which can only be experienced by practising sincere and extra ordinary bhakthi.I felt lighter at the first chapter and then got mixed feelings(devotion,anxiety,confusion) on reading the other chapters since i doubted on myself whether i am eligible to read all this(the other side i was actually thinking am blessed to read).I felt this wisdom is too much into this very bounded mind.I am generally a person with contradictions,negative thoughts,low self-respect when i face the world(but inwardly i like to think about myself and my dreams).I have a wavering mind but i am sure if i pray to hanuman sincerely with no doubts,I ll get purified and with wisdom.As a mere human being i too expect something in response to my bhakthi.

Kindly respond to my experience with your feedback Setuu masters.

Thanks with gratitude

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Mind is limited. It cannot express or contain the divine experiences of your soul.

blessings


757. Jai shri Ram

Prabhu jb se me setuu.org se judi hu muje bhut se prasno k uttar mile h... m hmesa kosis krti hu ki m accha sochu accha kru kbi kbi mere mann m durbhavna aa jati h prantu m unn asuro ko dur krr deti hu jis trah se adhyay m varnan h ki sur asur hote h asur pehle hmare sarir pr fir dimaag pr kbza krte h jis prakar ravan k sath hua.
Prabhuji m jb bi accha krti hu jinhe m bhut chahti hu unkr aage meri galat chavi ban jati h.... aap toh sb kuch jaan rhe h m aisa kya kru ki koi bi mujse dukhi n ho vo muje samjhe... mene aapke sare adhyay bhut dhyan se padhe h... or m apne jeevan m unhe utar rhi hu aap apni kripya muj pr bnaye rakhiye Prabhu muje issi prakar margdarshit kijiye.

Jsi Shri Ram

758. Jai Shri Ram

Hanumant baba these day am facing big trouble - without job - no earning source - liabilities on solders - in big trouble please gave me light how I get out from this immediately... because for you nothing is impossible.... babaji please help me or safe my family from this trouble... looking for your blessing... you always support me in all the ways .... now please ... please help me ..... jai hanumant baba ki - jai shri ram ...

759. jai shri ram

mene jab pehla adhyay padha tab mjhe mere sath hanuman ji ka sath ka anubhav hua par uske bad me meri galti h ki me uske bad me koi adhyay padh nahi paya ab me dobara se pehle adhyay se shuru karu ga aur sabhi adhyay sache man se acchhi trhe se padhu ga aur samjhu ga aur unke bare me doosro ko bhi batau ga ki aap bhi setuu se jud kar hanuman ji ka aashirwad prapt kre
jai shri ram

760. Jai Shri RAM

SANKAT MOCHAN MAHABALI SHRI HANUMAAN JI KI JAI !

Adhayay 5 me Shri Hanuman Ji ne btaya ki.... Deh se bahar nikalne ke baad ye bhrahmaand khud hamari deh ki raksha karta hai... Par adhayay 12 me sagar ke 60,000 putro ki deh ko rishi Aaurava ne aag laga diya. Aur unki deh nashta ho gayi. Mujhe yeh nahi samajh me aa raha hai ki agar deh ki raksha bramhaand karta hai toh kya Un 60,000 deh ki raksha brahmaanda nahi kr rahi thi ? Ya Iska koi aur kaaran hai ?

Setu Speaks: 
अध्यायों को पूर्णता से पढ़ा करो , आत्मस्वरूप ,

ब्रह्माण्ड रक्षा करता है इसका मतलब है कि अगर किसी देह में आत्मा न हो तो ब्रह्माण्ड उस देह के लिए कोई और आत्मा तलाशने की कोशिश करता है | जब उर्मी की देह से आत्मा गई तो ब्रह्माण्ड ने उस देह में एक वृद्ध की आत्मा भेज दी |

761. jai shri ram

It was very wonderful experience to me. I hope Lord Anjaneya will bless my family forever. Thank you for this experience. may God bless us

762. Jai Shri Ram::

Good afternoon sir
I thanked to all sadhak who are devotee of lord hanuman and working for the welfare of society. Sir i have read all chapters published by you this makes me to disclose my spiritual practice to you because i too a devotee of lord hanuman .
From last 3 years i worshipped him . I always chant sitaram and remembers him . I don't want to write more i just want to say that i love him most and i want to live with him forever .i want to be with him always , to live in his guidance , to live in his lotus feet. I regard him as my Guru and Lord SitaRam as my mother and father.
sir i want nothing in my life . For food and shelter , i just want a job for that only because my economical condition is not good and i am eldest in family so responsibility is on my shoulder .But i know when l will met my Lord hanuman , i can surpass all challenges through his guidance.
I have no more wish, I just want my SitaRam and Hanuman .
Sir help me :
Regarding worship of hanuman ji
i read hanuman chalisa, bajrang baan, sankatmochan ashtak, and Arti of lord Hanuman.I have prayed my times to get darshan but failed but my faith is not lose little bit. I will love him always.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

To get His Darshan, you must be first free from all insecurities in life. Use only one method of prayer and pray for fulfillment of your necessary desires first. After that you can desire His Sakshat Darshan.

Blessings

763. Jai shri Ram

Today we are celebrating Hanuman Jayanti....from morning I have a feeling that he is here..somewhere but where. He Sankatmochan...Kab darshan doge aap is bhakt ko?

764. Jai Shri Ram

Pranam mathangs and settu masters

Goddess ganga (extremely pure soul) original abode is whether Vishnu loka or mukthisagara

I am doing namasmarana 'Sairam' from last six years daily for some time. I used to talk with photo of sai baba about my feelings and spiritual doubts. Most of the times I got answer through various forms. How can I sense the presence of guru. Give some example. How can I find whether my soul is connected to shiridi saibaba.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Answer to your first query is Vishnuloka.

The Sun is there to give light. You are not supposed to go after the Sun and find it's location. You are supposed to make use of its light. Similarly, you are not supposed to find out who and where is your Guru. You have to concentrate only on seeking the truth. When you are evolved enough, you will start feeling presence of Guru and probably you will see His form also. But you have to keep concentrating on finding the truth. Right now do not assume or assign form to your Guru.

Blessings

765. Jai Shri Ram

Jai Hanuman,

Sir, How Can I realise My Soul. Means How can we Know that this particular voice is our Soul voice or it is only my Mind Voice.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul, Your mind may get thoughts from two sources - (1) Maya or the external world (2) Your soul. When your mind is directed by thoughts from your soul, you are on right path. Otherwise Maya has you trapped. To know if a thought is sourced from Soul or Maya, just find out whether it has been originated from something in external world or Maya. If it hasn't originated from Maya, it has come from soul. Now here is the tricky part. Originating and projecting are two different things. Your mind may get a thought from soul and then project it to be originated from Maya. Such a thought would be called right because it has originated from soul, but later got projected on Maya. You need to ponder and practice in order to be able to differentiate. Blessings

766. Jai Shri ram

Every day I think about Lord Hanuman, I get to know more about lord hanuman , his immortality, his love towards us. I love you Lord Hanuman.

Jai Shri Ram
Jai bajrang Bali.

P.S. I read in some articles in google search..that is it not good to recite bajrang ban?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Chanting of Lord Hanuman's name can never be wrong.
Blessings

767. Jai Shri Ram

"Om Shri Seetha Rama Chandra Devathaya Namaha:"
"Om Shri Aanjaneya Swamiye Namaha:"

I am devotee of Lord Shri Ram, I chant Shri Rama raksha sthothra and Shri Hanuman Chalisa every day. One day I got a link to "Setuu" website from a social networking site, So I checked the website and started reading lord Shri Hanuman leelas. After reading lord Shri Hanuman leelas, I understood about mind, body and soul and I have gained confidence in my life and the way leela's explained by lord Shri Hanuman is very easy to understand. Thank you very much to Setuu website.

"Jai Shri Ram"
"Jai Hanuman".

768. Jai Shri Ram

I would like to help the downtrodden people, educate the children who lacks money, help the community in need. But how could I do that. How can I get the support to do that especially financial support is crucial.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You can help them without any resources. The connection of sympathy and empathy is very weak. Establish the connection of ONENESS. Realize that they are not separate from you. THEY ARE YOU. They are not third party entities. They are your own reflection. The day you realize the connection of ONENESS between you and them, they will become rich and happy. Can you take up this challenge?

769. Jai Shri Ram

Hanumanji please protect me from going to a wrong path. please help me lord to achieve success in life. Please bless my family lord.

770. Jai Shri Ram

Jai Shree Ganesh, oh lord Hanuman, bajrangbali pawanputra rambhakt anjaniputra bless us with good thoughts and good powers to live our life good and make others life good, hanuman ji cure al our diseases, and make our body healthy so that with our healthy body we can create and healthy and clean society, cure my father, stop him from drinking wine and smoking so that we can spend rest of our life happily and peacefully,may my father and mother and sister and me al b together, they al play with my daughters along with my wife, grant us good fortune and success in life, grant us ways to live a good and happy life, grant us money so that we can help our poor and sick brothers and sisters out there...JAI Shree RAM.......

771. JAI SHRI RAM

While I was reading this beautiful chapter 1 I started feeling too sleepy and I almost fell a sleep so I thought let drink some water and get fresh again to read this chapter so I picked up the water bottle which was lying next to my laptop and suddenly the water bottle slipped from my hand and some water fell on the laptop and my entire sleep just disappeared and suddenly this thought came to my mind that since I was reading such an interesting and sacred chapter how come I was sleepy and the knowledge point that comes to my mind is even in smallest incident which appears to be wrong but eventually is good.

And my humble request to LORD HANUMAN JI is that I am trapped in the cigarette addiction for many years which is not allowing me to fully live my life and beautiful knowledge that my GURU JI has given this world and his name is SRI SRI RAVI SHANKER JI, please bless me so that I can have enough strength to leave this bad habbit of mine and would also like to live a purposeful life for myself and others around me.Also bless me with strength to face any challenges which might come in spiritual and SATVIK path and should be able to live a desired life that I am seeking from my this lifetime. I do not know whether I would be able to live that kind of life or not but I am very much interested in achieving so although my karma's till today doesn't encourage me in demanding such things but I still seek that knowledge and that purposeful life for myself and people around me. I also surrender all my actions & thoughts to LORD HANUMAN JI and seek his blessings.

772. jai shri ram

mera naam vijay tiwari hai,jab se maine apne apko shri ram doot ke charan kamal saup diya hai,bahot khus hu prabhu ki daya ho rahi hai ,he shri bajrang bali mere upar daya aur ashirwad kariye ,mere kashton ko samapt kar apni daya drishti daliye prabhu.
apka murakh balak
jai shri seeta ram
jai shri ram bakt hanuman ji maharaj

773. jai shri ram

jai shri Ram Jai Pawan Puttr Hanuman

mera anubhaw mahabeer ki kripa se mai jo sochta hu wo ho jata hea mere upar mere baba ki bahut badi kirpa hai mai kabhi bhi kisi bhi sankat me padta hu baba humari humesa madad karte hai

774. Jai Shri Ram! Jai Hanuman !

Jai Sri Ram, For the past few days, the thinking of attaining gods feet grow stronger. Please show me the right path to relieve myself from the world of sorrows.

775. JAI SHRI RAM JAI HANUMAN

My Prayer for Mahabir Hanuman,
श्रीराम
अतुलित बलधामं हेमशैलाभदेहं।
दनुज वन कृशानुं, ज्ञानिनामग्रगण्यम्।।
सकलगुणनिधानं वानराणामधीशं।
रघुपति प्रियभक्तं वातजातं नमामि।।

दोहा
निश्चय प्रेम प्रतीति ते, विनय करैं सनमान।
तेहि के कारज सकल शुभ, सिद्ध करैं हनुमान।।

चौपाई
जय हनुमन्त सन्त हितकारी। सुनि लीजै प्रभु अरज हमारी।।
जन के काज विलम्ब न कीजै। आतुर दौरि महा सुख दीजै।।
जैसे कूदि सिन्धु वहि पारा। सुरसा बदन पैठि विस्तारा।।
आगे जाय लंकिनी रोका। मारेहु लात गई सुर लोका।।
जाय विभीषण को सुख दीन्हा। सीता निरखि परम पद लीन्हा।।
बाग उजारि सिन्धु मंह बोरा। अति आतुर यम कातर तोरा।।
अक्षय कुमार को मारि संहारा। लूम लपेटि लंक को जारा।।
लाह समान लंक जरि गई। जै जै धुनि सुर पुर में भई।।
अब विलंब केहि कारण स्वामी। कृपा करहु प्रभु अन्तर्यामी।।
जय जय लक्ष्मण प्राण के दाता। आतुर होई दुख करहु निपाता।।
जै गिरधर जै जै सुख सागर। सुर समूह समरथ भट नागर।।
ॐ हनु-हनु-हनु हनुमंत हठीले। वैरहिं मारू बज्र सम कीलै।।
गदा बज्र तै बैरिहीं मारौ। महाराज निज दास उबारों।।
सुनि हंकार हुंकार दै धावो। बज्र गदा हनि विलम्ब न लावो।।
ॐ ह्रीं ह्रीं ह्रीं हनुमंत कपीसा। ॐ हुँ हुँ हुँ हनु अरि उर शीसा।।
सत्य होहु हरि सत्य पाय कै। राम दुत धरू मारू धाई कै।।
जै हनुमन्त अनन्त अगाधा। दुःख पावत जन केहि अपराधा।।
पूजा जप तप नेम अचारा। नहिं जानत है दास तुम्हारा।।
वन उपवन जल-थल गृह माहीं। तुम्हरे बल हम डरपत नाहीं।।
पाँय परौं कर जोरि मनावौं। अपने काज लागि गुण गावौं।।
जै अंजनी कुमार बलवन्ता। शंकर स्वयं वीर हनुमंता।।
बदन कराल दनुज कुल घालक। भूत पिशाच प्रेत उर शालक।।
भूत प्रेत पिशाच निशाचर। अग्नि बैताल वीर मारी मर।।
इन्हहिं मारू, तोंहि शमथ रामकी। राखु नाथ मर्याद नाम की।।
जनक सुता पति दास कहाओ। ताकी शपथ विलम्ब न लाओ।।
जय जय जय ध्वनि होत अकाशा। सुमिरत होत सुसह दुःख नाशा।।
उठु-उठु चल तोहि राम दुहाई। पाँय परौं कर जोरि मनाई।।
ॐ चं चं चं चं चपल चलन्ता। ॐ हनु हनु हनु हनु हनु हनुमंता।।
ॐ हं हं हांक देत कपि चंचल। ॐ सं सं सहमि पराने खल दल।।
अपने जन को कस न उबारौ। सुमिरत होत आनन्द हमारौ।।
ताते विनती करौं पुकारी। हरहु सकल दुःख विपति हमारी।।
ऐसौ बल प्रभाव प्रभु तोरा। कस न हरहु दुःख संकट मोरा।।
हे बजरंग, बाण सम धावौ। मेटि सकल दुःख दरस दिखावौ।।
हे कपिराज काज कब ऐहौ। अवसर चूकि अन्त पछतैहौ।।
जन की लाज जात ऐहि बारा। धावहु हे कपि पवन कुमारा।।
जयति जयति जै जै हनुमाना। जयति जयति गुण ज्ञान निधाना।।
जयति जयति जै जै कपिराई। जयति जयति जै जै सुखदाई।।
जयति जयति जै राम पियारे। जयति जयति जै सिया दुलारे।।
जयति जयति मुद मंगलदाता। जयति जयति त्रिभुवन विख्याता।।
ऐहि प्रकार गावत गुण शेषा। पावत पार नहीं लवलेषा।।
राम रूप सर्वत्र समाना। देखत रहत सदा हर्षाना।।
विधि शारदा सहित दिनराती। गावत कपि के गुन बहु भाँति।।
तुम सम नहीं जगत बलवाना। करि विचार देखउं विधि नाना।।
यह जिय जानि शरण तब आई। ताते विनय करौं चित लाई।।
सुनि कपि आरत वचन हमारे। मेटहु सकल दुःख भ्रम भारे।।
एहि प्रकार विनती कपि केरी। जो जन करै लहै सुख ढेरी।।
याके पढ़त वीर हनुमाना। धावत बाण तुल्य बनवाना।।
मेटत आए दुःख क्षण माहिं। दै दर्शन रघुपति ढिग जाहीं।।
पाठ करै बजरंग बाण की। हनुमत रक्षा करै प्राण की।।
डीठ, मूठ, टोनादिक नासै। परकृत यंत्र मंत्र नहीं त्रासे।।
भैरवादि सुर करै मिताई। आयुस मानि करै सेवकाई।।
प्रण कर पाठ करें मन लाई। अल्प-मृत्यु ग्रह दोष नसाई।।
आवृत ग्यारह प्रतिदिन जापै। ताकी छाँह काल नहिं चापै।।
दै गूगुल की धूप हमेशा। करै पाठ तन मिटै कलेषा।।
यह बजरंग बाण जेहि मारे। ताहि कहौ फिर कौन उबारे।।
शत्रु समूह मिटै सब आपै। देखत ताहि सुरासुर काँपै।।
तेज प्रताप बुद्धि अधिकाई। रहै सदा कपिराज सहाई।।
दोहा
प्रेम प्रतीतिहिं कपि भजै। सदा धरैं उर ध्यान।।
तेहि के कारज तुरत ही, सिद्ध करैं हनुमान।।

Apka Sewak
Pranav Tiwari


778. Jai shri Ram Jai Shri Hanuman

The chapters have enlightened me in many ways and help me to understand the kaalchakra, ones life to death and rebirth and hav given me an understanding of the deeds that one does in his life give result until next birth.

Jai Shri Ram Jai Shri Hanuman

779. jai shri ram jai shri hanuman

मेरे प्रिया सेतू मेम्बर मेने जब आपके द्वारा प्रदिश सभी अध्याय पढ़े तो मुझे ऐसा लग रहा था जैसे स्वम् महाराज श्री हनुमान जी मुझे सारा प्रसंग सुना रहे है आप का बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद मेरी आत्मा को प्रभु से मिलने के लिए


780. JAI SHRI RAM JI,,, JAI BAJRANGBALI JI

JAI SHRI RAM JI,,,, JAI SHRI HANUMAAN JI

MAIN HANUMAAN JI KO DIL SE PREM BHAAV SE PARNAAM KARTA HOON,,, MUJHE HANUMAAN JI DUAARA BATAYI GYI MULYAVAAN KAHANIYAAN PADNE MEIN BAHUT SAKOON MILTA HAI,,, BAS MERI SETUASIA WALO SE EK VINETI (REQUEST) HAI,,, KI AAP JAB BHI KOI BHI KAHAANI UPLOAD KARO TOH PURI KAHANI KIYA KIJIYE,,, BAKI AAP BAHUT ACHHA KAAM KAR RAHE HO,,, AAP LOGOON KO APNE DHARAM KA RASTA DIKHA RAHE HO,,

JAI SHRI RAM JI,,, JAI SHRI HANUMAAN JI
<3 <3 <3 <3 <3


781. Jai Shri Ram - Queries

As prescribed in the chapters at a time there exists four different worlds / dimensions, one is past, present, future & finally the swapnlok.As an ordinary human being we know only the present world, we cannot see our past except memorise it, future also cannot be seen by us we have to wait for the future. Swapnalok we are not sure whether full life exists there. my query is do this world run parallely and if it runs parallely where does the integration of all these 4 worlds takes place.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Past, present, future are not separate worlds. They are part of one world only. Swapan Loka is different world. As per the concept of parallel worlds is concerned, you will learn more about them in upcoming chapters. Parallel worlds are infinite in number. But we can penetrate only 7 upper worlds (Vyahritis) and 7 lower worlds (Patals). We have no interaction whatsoever with rest of the worlds.

Blessings

782. Jai Shri Rama

Committed to God. Shri Maha Vishnu. Om Sri Hari Vishnu. I would like to know more about u. I feel you.

Actually I don't even know what to tell. May be my soul is speaking unconsciously.May be I am communicating with Vishnu without realising. I don't know. Its just, don't know what it is. I can't explain in words. That's all.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When you don't find words to explain your experiences, know that the experiences are happening at level of soul. Congratulations that you are able to rise to that level.

Blessings

783. Jai Shriram

I have been your devotee from the days I know to speak or understand things, being close to you physically coming to temple and being part of pooja that is done everyday when you where at my home, I have always heard and seen more than realizing myself. I have realized myself few times that I could think of and I feel ashamed of myself as you being at our home and I was not able to realize, still I repent for it. But whenever I see you coming to temple that I have always felt the power of yours and I lose myself, that is more than true. I have taken this birth for whatever reason but for me it is for the happiness of my parents and make them live happily. My parents and sister have not seen many good things apart from serving you, I see them happy these days or pretend to be happy by seeing me. I would like to keep them happy all through this life, I still feel bad that I am not able to do it and I am not able to achieve it. I fear about it, I have been waste all through my life and I am what I am because of you not because of what I did. I fear you have gone away from me because of my ignorance and pathetic mind. Please I beg you not to go away from me, I would like you to be ever with me. Please forgive me for whatever wrong I did. Please shower your blessings on me and be with me. I am not as before and I struggle with the situation. I beg you to be with me and save me from the worldly things. I am trying to be as good as I can but it could be achieved only through you and not by myself. Please help me bring happiness to my family through me as I was a burden to them always before. Please be with me. Everyone come to our place to seek your blessings I still do not know you being with us why did you not make things better in the family. Please say me. Again I am asking you to shower your blessings for betterment of myself to serve my family and make them happy. I want to shine in my carrier but being your devotee I still struggle please help me Anjeneya.

784. jai shriram

Dear lord hanuman, Clean my soul n pure it n improve my all over health&mind .I need your help for all desire pls cojoint to live with my soul I want to do bramacharya viradham like u, but I'm human so I set my mind to maximize my bramacharya virdham. pls help all devotees. Lord I trust u do all my above words. Thanks for Setuu masters for connect my soul with lord anjanaidevi son of my lord hanuman(Sorry for my English) SRI RAMA THOOTHAYA MAHADHEERA RUDRAVEERYA SAMATH BHAVA,ANJANAA KARPPHA SAMBOODHA VAAYU PUTHRAYA NAMOSTHUTHEY. Jaishreeram

785. JAI SIA RAM

Aaj hum 2nd chapter read kiye mann bahut shant hua..ajeeb si powerful feeling hui..mein bahut paresan thi,life me bahut paresani tension thi nd shayad abhi bhi h..na career set ho rha na kuch kar pa rhe h kisi k liye bhi..even hum khud bhi satisfied nhi the hum khud khush rhna chate h..nd sbko rakhna chahte h...CA meri life ka ek important dream h final ek grp rha h nhi ho raha..bahut try kiye..bt abhi tak nhi ho rha..bas hanuman ji mein CA ban k life me accha career set krna chahti hu sath hi anuj ji k sath pyar bhari lambi life hum anuj ji sath jiye..sb k prati apne duties ko pura krna chahti hu...jo muj se jude ho ya na jude ho sbko khushi dena chahti hu...aap mera marg darshan kre..and mujhe mere goal ko prapt krne me help kre..bahut shanti milti h adhyay pad k ....thnx to all...dhanywad hanuman ji ..aap mera marg prashst kre nd moksha prapti me help kre...me apne dreama ko sach me pura karu apni kripa kre...hey sankatmochan hum pe kripa kre...dhanywad

786. jai sita ram please answer

jai sita ram
as sita ram and hanuman are antaryami they know everything so I want to tell that I am doing japa of Lord brihaspati and have a very special desire to get fulfilled. how much tim
e it will take to get fulfilled. is my questions are really discussed with Sri hanuman if yes then he knows better.
I want answer to the point.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have desire to know how much time is left, you are not doing the Japa rightly. When you do Japa or Vrata or Dhyana, you should not get thoughts about how much time is left. You should experience only the present moment.

Blessings

787. JAI SITA RAM PLEASE REPLY PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE OH LORD SITA RAM

LORD SITA RAM'S PRIMARY AND SUPREME DECIPLE AND SEVAK IS LORD HANUMAN , HANUMAN IS AT THE MOST POWERFULL WITHOUT ANY POWER , HE IS NONE OTHER THAN PART OF SHAKTI OF MAHADEV OR SHIVA . JAI SITA RAM
I HAVE MANY DOUBTS AS I AM GRIHASTHA SADHAKA OF SITA RAM AND DURGA PLEASE PLEASE LORD SITA RAM AND LORD HANUMAN ANSWER TO MY DOUBTS OR ELSE I WILL DIE
1 I HAVE READ MORE THEN 300 TIMES SUNDERKAND WITH A DESIRE TO GET FULFILLED BUT IT WAS NOT FULFILLED , WHY ???????????????? BUT IN THE BOOK IT WAS WRITTEN THAT ONLY READING 64 TIMES MY WISH WILL GET FULFILLED , EVEN AFTER READING MORE THEN 300 TIMES IT WAS NOT FULFILLED WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY

2 I WANT TO GET A JOB AND POSTED IN NABARD AS A ASTT MGR RDBS 2015 BATCH AND IN WHICH I HAVE GIVEN INTERVIEW IN DELHI IN 27TH JULY 2015 AND WANT TO DO THE JOB IN THIS POST IN NABARD WHOLE MY LIFE PROPERLY AND WANT TO BE A BIG OFFICER IN NABARD EARN MONEY AND SPENT THE WHOLE LIFE HAPPILY WITH MY FAMILY , HARSH MADHU HRIDYA(YET TO COME ) DONATED MONEY AND RED CLOTH WITH 108 TIMES JAI SITA RAM WRTTEN ON IT AND PLACED ON FOOT OF LORD HANUMAN I WISH MY DREAM COMES TRUE

3 PREVIOUSLY AS I KNOW EVERY ONE TELLS ME THAT WHAT IT IS IN KISMAT THAT THING HAPPENS , BUT CAN I NOT CHANGE MY KISMAT BY JAPA, AS I KNOW SRI SARADA MA OF SRI SRI RAMAKRISHNA TOLD THAT WE CAN CHANGE OUR KISMAT BY JAPA , BUT I WANT TO KNOW BY YOUR OWN VOICE AND PROCEDURE TO CHANGE MY KISMAT TO MUCH MORE BETTER ONE

4 MY WIFE TELLS ME THAT I SHOULD NOT LOOSE FAITH BUT CONDITIONS WERE SO TOUGH THAT FAITH BROKE . WAS IT NOT THE DUTY OF LORD HANUMAN TO REGAIN MY FATH , AT FIRST I PRAYED TO LORD SITA RAM BUT NOTHING HAPPENED ALL JAPA NO RESULT , SO I TURNED TO MAA DURGA AS SHE THE PRIME THE SUPREME COURT , FOR ME NO OTHER WAY

5 I WANT ALL THE ANSWERS RIGHT AWAY .

6 WHY I AM ALWAYS GET ATTRACTED TO MAHA KALI IS THERE ANY LINK AND LETTER REGRET THAT I SHOULD NOT FORGET LORD SITA RAM AND HANUMAN , WHAT IS THE PROBLEM WITH ME AND IN MY SOUL , WHAT HAP[PENED IN MY PAST THAT CREATED SO MUCH CONFUSION IN MY FAITH , IS IT RIGHT NOW

7 HOW CAN I MEASURE HOW MUCH SADHANA I HAVE DONE AND STILL HOW MUCH TO GO AND HOW MUCH PAAP I HAVE DONE

8 IS MY PAAP IS SO MUCH THAT EVEN JAPA OF NAME OF LORD SITA RAM CANNOT PURIFY ME WHAT IS THE PROBLEM

I DONT WANT MUCH ALL I NEED A GOOD JOB IN NABARD 2015 AS AM RDBS A HAPPY FAMILY AND BLESSING OF LORD SITA RAM LORD HANUMAN AND MAA DURGA

HOW CAN I KNOW IS LORD SITA RAM LORD HANUMAN AND MAA DURAG SATISFIED WITH ME PLEASE PLEASE ANSWER ME

JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SITA RAM JAI SIAT RAM JAI SIITA RAM

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul, Take care of these 4 things- (1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals. (2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world. (3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear", "worry", “doubt”, “victimhood” etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman. (4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.

788. jai siya ram

sayad ye pdne k bd lggaaa ki mera jeevan inhi addiyaao ko pdne k liye hua h.................mere balagi ne mujpr sdeevv aashirwaad rkha h iss aashirwaad k liy me dhany huuu....jai shre ram jai hanuman
sankat mochan kripa nidhaan......mere pariwaar ki sadeev rakhsa krnaaa....
.

789. Jai SiyaRam

It was my mother who made my first introduction to the Immortal GOD HANUMAN. As a devotee herself she asked her little daughter to memorize Hanuman chalisa which has all powers to protect all eternity. My meals were then accompanied by the stories Ramayan and Mahabharat. As I was growing in age my responsibilities,problems were also increasing. Being a girl from a small town I encountered problems in my studies and didn't know in which stream I am good at,which I should take and which I am really getting. I came to a believe that I should work for the betterment of society,especially children through reforms in education. I am currently working in this and if Lord Hanuman will want to make me means for this I will definitely get success in my career.

My faith was tested when I was informed about the illness of my 1 year old cousin sister. I was told that the doctor has diagnosed her blood cancer. I cannot feel blood in my vein as my heart was with her immediately and my senses have stopped hearing rest of the news. I cried and begged for her life. I started praying to my Lord and within a week when again test were done doctors told that there is no sign of cancer. He gave me my sister back.

My met few great souls in the life journey yet so far now,whom I want to mention, my mother, my father,my sir,my friends,my uncles and aunties. I am blessed to be born in such loving family and by having so many good people around me.

GOD I pray you for peace in the world,for humanity,for love,respect and dedication for good. Protect your children,save them from the harshness of illusion and guide us to betterment of all humanity.

Jai SiyaRam.
Jai Krishna


790. jai sree hanuman g ki jai

Bhagban main is dharti main jab tak gue
mujhe kabhi v dukh na ho sada sukhi aur khus rahoon aur aapka naam leke geu.
Jai bajarangbali....


791. Jai Sree Ram

Nase rog hare sab pira ,japet niranter hnumat veera.

Aap logo ne jo Setuu asiya chalu kiya hai ,Ye mujhe bhoot hi acha lga..

792. Jai Sri Hanuman Ji ki Jai Ho

Hanuman ji Main May 2014 ki puja main aap ko fal arpan nahi kar paya main chamaparthi hu. Meri majburi ko aap hi samaj skate hai. Meri Es galati ki saja main Bhugat raha hu. Chama Kare hanuman ji. Ab ye jiban aap ko hi arpit Kiya hai. Jai Sri Hanuman ji ki Jai ho.


793. JAI SRI JANAKIRAM! JAI HANUMAN!

iam very very very happy

794. JAI SRI RAM

IS SAMPURNA SANSAR ME SAB KUCHH PRABHU JI (SRI HANUMAN JI) KI KRIPA SE HI HOTA HAI....BINA UNKI KRIPA K KUCHH BHI NAHI HOTA......IS LIYE HAME APNE KARMA KARTE HUE PRABHU JI HI SAB KUCHH HAIN IS SASWAT SATYA SWEKAR KARKE PRABHU JI KA SMARAN DHYAN VANDAN KARTE RAHNA CHAHIYE..................JAI SRI RAM.....JAI PRABHU JI

Setu Speaks: 
सत्य कहा आपने आत्म स्वरुप श्री मान।

यह जीवन माया का समंदर है। प्रभु ने हमारे कमर पर रस्सी बांधकर इस समंदर में उतारा है। अगर हम इस रस्सी को नहीं छोड़ें और प्रभु द्वारा निश्चित कर्म करते रहें तो हम अपने कर्मों को निपटाकर प्रभु के पास पुनः जा सकते हैं। अगर हमने माया मोह में फंसकर इस रस्सी का त्याग कर दिया तो जन्म जन्म तक हम इस समुद्र में ही भटकते रहेंगे।

प्रभु का स्मरण ही वो रस्सी है जो हमें इस संसार में होते हुए भी उनसे जोड़े रखती है।

प्रणाम।

राम।


795. jai sri ram

bhaut accha laga phela adhyayey padh kar lekin abhi bhi mein bram mein hoon kya ye sach hai.... hanuman ji..

jai sri ram
om shri hanumate namah..
hanuman ji mujhe shakti do budhi ka vikas karo... hey prabhu... mujhe in uljhano se mukt kardo...

796. JAI SRI RAM

Dear Hanuman,

ME AND MY MOM NEED OWN JOYOUS HEALTHY WEALTHY DIVINE HOUSE PLS GIVE PLS PLS PLS PLS
JAI SRI RAM JAI SRI RAM JAI SRI RAM

797. Jai Sri Ram...

Continued from #529956...

First of all I convey my heart felt thanks and regards to the sadhakas who have answered my quest and guided me through it.In the above following experience i.e the answer to this you have mentioned that "An Invisible Guru is guiding me,and that he is very near to me".You have also mentioned this fact that a Guru knows when his or her disciple has to go through a conflict and have peace.When I read about this and looked back at my life I found that whatever pains or turmoils I have gone through has made me a better person.

As to say am close to Lord Vishnu in all His divine forms especially Lord Jagannath,Sri Ram and Sri Ranganatha or Sri Padmanabhaswamy from an early age,I know that whatever He does is best for me.I would like to know who is that invisible Guru?

Will He or She ever be visible to me? How do I get to know of the instructions?Could you guide me on this.

Jai Sri Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

A Guru need not have a intelligible form. If you can sense His presence, that is enough. You have to be wary of the assumptions though. Sometimes, a seeker may make assumption that their invisible Guru is giving them signal to do something. That may not be true. Don't make assumptions. Just follow your natural course and do everything as per your Dharma. When you feel Guru's presence, just take a breath and fill your heart with gratitude. And then resume your natural course.

Blessings

798. Jai Sri Ram

i always believed in gods they showed us all that we need to know like how to life and purify yourself show kind and share good , but current world has become too busy and got so selfish for power , pride money etc.. and forgot what they showed us to do but there are still people who do all that and still believe in good and i believe they are still watching over us guiding us , forgiving us for our mistakes , all i can say i thank you god for watching over me and everybody , please bless me and all and guide me and all into good , please forgive us for our mistakes and help us learn ways of good and kind, please bless us with your knowledge , please accept my prayers

always your believer
Srinivasa Rao

Jai Hanuman , Jai Sri Ram

799. JAI SRI RAM

॥दोहा॥

श्रीगुरु चरन सरोज रज निज मनु मुकुरु सुधारि ।
बरनउँ रघुबर बिमल जसु जो दायकु फल चारि ॥

बुद्धिहीन तनु जानिके सुमिरौं पवन-कुमार ।
बल बुधि बिद्या देहु मोहिं हरहु कलेस बिकार ॥

॥चौपाई॥

जय हनुमान ज्ञान गुन सागर ।
जय कपीस तिहुँ लोक उजागर ॥१॥

राम दूत अतुलित बल धामा ।
अञ्जनि-पुत्र पवनसुत नामा ॥२॥

महाबीर बिक्रम बजरङ्गी ।
कुमति निवार सुमति के सङ्गी ॥३॥

कञ्चन बरन बिराज सुबेसा ।
कानन कुण्डल कुञ्चित केसा ॥४॥

हाथ बज्र औ ध्वजा बिराजै ।
काँधे मूँज जनेउ साजै ॥५॥

सङ्कर सुवन केसरीनन्दन ।
तेज प्रताप महा जग बन्दन ॥६॥

बिद्यावान गुनी अति चातुर ।
राम काज करिबे को आतुर ॥७॥

प्रभु चरित्र सुनिबे को रसिया ।
राम लखन सीता मन बसिया ॥८॥

सूक्ष्म रूप धरि सियहिं दिखावा ।
बिकट रूप धरि लङ्क जरावा ॥९॥

भीम रूप धरि असुर सँहारे ।
रामचन्द्र के काज सँवारे ॥१०॥

लाय सञ्जीवन लखन जियाये ।
श्रीरघुबीर हरषि उर लाये ॥११॥

रघुपति कीह्नी बहुत बड़ाई ।
तुम मम प्रिय भरतहि सम भाई ॥१२॥

सहस बदन तुह्मारो जस गावैं ।
अस कहि श्रीपति कण्ठ लगावैं ॥१३॥

सनकादिक ब्रह्मादि मुनीसा ।
नारद सारद सहित अहीसा ॥१४॥

जम कुबेर दिगपाल जहाँ ते ।
कबि कोबिद कहि सके कहाँ ते ॥१५॥

तुम उपकार सुग्रीवहिं कीह्ना ।
राम मिलाय राज पद दीह्ना ॥१६॥

तुह्मरो मन्त्र बिभीषन माना ।
लङ्केस्वर भए सब जग जाना ॥१७॥

जुग सहस्र जोजन पर भानु ।
लील्यो ताहि मधुर फल जानू ॥१८॥

प्रभु मुद्रिका मेलि मुख माहीं ।
जलधि लाँघि गये अचरज नाहीं ॥१९॥

दुर्गम काज जगत के जेते ।
सुगम अनुग्रह तुह्मरे तेते ॥२०॥

राम दुआरे तुम रखवारे ।
होत न आज्ञा बिनु पैसारे ॥२१॥

सब सुख लहै तुह्मारी सरना ।
तुम रच्छक काहू को डर ना ॥२२॥

आपन तेज सह्मारो आपै ।
तीनों लोक हाँक तें काँपै ॥२३॥

भूत पिसाच निकट नहिं आवै ।
महाबीर जब नाम सुनावै ॥२४॥

नासै रोग हरै सब पीरा ।
जपत निरन्तर हनुमत बीरा ॥२५॥

सङ्कट तें हनुमान छुड़ावै ।
मन क्रम बचन ध्यान जो लावै ॥२६॥

सब पर राम तपस्वी राजा ।
तिन के काज सकल तुम साजा ॥२७॥

और मनोरथ जो कोई लावै ।
सोई अमित जीवन फल पावै ॥२८॥

चारों जुग परताप तुह्मारा ।
है परसिद्ध जगत उजियारा ॥२९॥

साधु सन्त के तुम रखवारे ।
असुर निकन्दन राम दुलारे ॥३०॥

अष्टसिद्धि नौ निधि के दाता ।
अस बर दीन जानकी माता ॥३१॥

राम रसायन तुह्मरे पासा ।
सदा रहो रघुपति के दासा ॥३२॥

तुह्मरे भजन राम को पावै ।
जनम जनम के दुख बिसरावै ॥३३॥

अन्त काल रघुबर पुर जाई ।
जहाँ जन्म हरिभक्त कहाई ॥३४॥

और देवता चित्त न धरई ।
हनुमत सेइ सर्ब सुख करई ॥३५॥

सङ्कट कटै मिटै सब पीरा ।
जो सुमिरै हनुमत बलबीरा ॥३६॥

जय जय जय हनुमान गोसाईं ।
कृपा करहु गुरुदेव की नाईं ॥३७॥

जो सत बार पाठ कर कोई ।
छूटहि बन्दि महा सुख होई ॥३८॥

जो यह पढ़ै हनुमान चालीसा ।
होय सिद्धि साखी गौरीसा ॥३९॥

तुलसीदास सदा हरि चेरा ।
कीजै नाथ हृदय महँ डेरा ॥४०॥

॥दोहा॥

पवनतनय सङ्कट हरन मङ्गल मूरति रूप ।
राम लखन सीता सहित हृदय बसहु सुर भूप ॥

800. jai sri ram

mere hanuman ji ko mera aur mere parivar ka koti koti pranam, jabse unki charn kamal me hu bahot aache anubhav mile hai,he sri ramdoot maharaj meri manokamna poori kariye, setu asia ka bahot abhar jo ki mere viswas ko aur majboot kiya hai, jai shri ram

801. jai sri ram

Last chapter mein jisme sri ram setu ke baare mein bataya ke patal ke wasiyon ne apni protection ke liye samudra mein badi chattaney khadi kar di thi. Jis per bridge khada tha...
My query is..... Agar bridge un chattano pe khada hua tha toh jo. Sri ram naam likhe hue patthar hain woh aaj bhi kaise paani mein tairtey hain. Agar us samay woh paani mein nahi tairey the...

I am sorry agar mere puchney ki takrikey mein kuch galti hai toh..... But main es sawal mein uljha hua hoon.

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

प्रभु राम ने अपने लिए संसार का कभी नियम नहीं तोडा | संसार के नियम के अनुसार क्या ये संभव है कि चट्टानें पानी में तैरने भी लगे और वे लाखों सैनिकों के ऊपर से गुजरने पर भी न डूबे ? मिथ्याओं को सही सिद्ध करने के प्रयास में और अधिक मिथ्या खड़ी न करें |

|| राम ||


802. jai sri ram

Bhagwan hanumaan k charno me mera Sadar pranam....apke dawara di gayi jankari Kafi bahumulya Hai.hanumaan aaj bhi jivit Hai or manvta k kalyaan k liye hamesa is dharti par rahenge.hame unke dawara bataye gaye marg par chalna chahiye.jai sri ram....

803. Jai Sri Ram

Maine ye chapter pada. Mere mann mein ek prashn aaya.
Jab hum sote hain. Toh swapn lok mein jaate hain. Khuli aankhon se hum mrityu lok(earth) per hain. Lekin jab hum meditation karte hain aur jo views hamari band aankhon ke saamne hotey hain. Us samay hum kahan hote hain kyonki kuch views woh hote hain. Jo hamari wish se bante hain aur kuch views kabhi kabhi woh hote hain jo soche nhi hote lekin saamne aa jate hain.

Setu Speaks: 
वह भी एक वास्तविकता है | स्वपन लोक कई वास्तविकताओं से बनता है जैसा की आपने 14वे अध्याय में पढ़ा | उन्ही वास्तविकताओं में जो सबसे नीचे हैं वो कल्पना कहलाती हैं और जैसे जैसे ऊपर उठते जाते हैं स्वपनलोक की ऐसी वास्तविकताओं में हम प्रवेश कर जाते हैं जिनका मानवलोक से सम्बन्ध घटता जाता है और अंततः मानव लोक से सम्बन्ध बिलकुल कट जाता है | जो सबसे ऊपर की वास्तविकताओं में अनुभव होते हैं उनकी स्मृति भी मानव लोक में हमारे साथ नहीं आती |

||राम||

804. Jai Sri Ram

Sri Hanumaan aur SetuMasters ko mera naman.Aaj kuch din pehle, Job ye jindegi galat raho pe jaane ko chahne loga tabhi mera sampark setuasia se hua. Abto mera atma Hanumaanji ki astitwa ke bare me jaan kar khusi se jhum raha hein. Mein ab tak aap ke dwara prakashit Prabhu Hanumaan ki lila ki 12 chapter atyanta hriday aur man lagakar parha hoon.Mujhe har chapter se bahutkuch naya sikhne ko mila hein aur muhe Hanumaan ji se gahara bhakti janma hein.

Mujhe janna hein ki kyuon mujhe bar bar aisha lagta hein ki Hanumaanji aur Prabhu Ram se mera yugo se koi anjan sambandh hein?Kripa karke mera margdarshan kijiye.

Dhanyabaad.

Setu Speaks: 
क्योंकि वास्तव में आपका रिश्ता है | पहले कई जन्मों में आप रामभक्त रह चुके हैं |

805. Jai sri ram. "Experience #32570"

I was in great trouble finding job after studies and I started praying the lord HANUMAN everyday and I started seeing the change in my life, I got placed in my dream job and hope every hurdle in my life and in my family will vanish soon.Hoping to see hanuman ji at-least in my dreams..Believe or not I heard from my mom saying that my dad has seen hanuman ji just in a glimpse of eyes when he visited one of the temples in Andhra pradesh,India.,but he could not tell to the outside world as they do not believe and In turn they laugh at my dad(this was his feeling).But i do believe him.. God is there..Hanuman is there. Jai sri ram..Jai hanuman.

Bless your devotees and your followers Hanuman ji.
Sri veeranjaneyam raavayya, sarva baaramu neevenayya.

806. Jai Sri Ram, Jai Hanuman

I just read 2 chapters & am feeling deeply moved. I lived with Hare Krishnas for some time... my friend from high school was a Brahmacari. He had a small Deity of Lord Hanuman, he would bathe every day & put to rest at night in a hand made sleeping bag ... I have not thought about that for some time. I pray to Lord Hanuman for desire to serve the devotees & to purify my existence & not get lost in the deep illusion of maya. thanks for this website ... I just seemed to be guided to it. Jai Sri Ram, Jai Hanuman, Hare Krishna.

807. jai sri ram ji hanuman ji

hanuman ji is alive.....he is alws help me.....unhone mujhe mata shabri dham ji ke darshan krva diye suddenly......mera Jovan dhanya hogya ...kya ap hmari matang Rishi ji tak phchne ka koi contact krva skate hain

Setu Speaks: 
ज्ञान से संपर्क कीजिये , सज्जन | मनुष्यों अथवा स्थानों के पीछे मत भागिए , हनुमान जी के शब्दों का अनुपालन कीजिये |

|| राम ||

808. Jai Sri Ram, please help me prabhu

Hi,
I have a doubt. I am going to sleep now , it's midnight. If I get my answer in my dreams today night., I will believe what I read few minutes before.

I am living in a environment where every second we do sin.is there a way I can purify myself still ?? Today my dreams will guide me what to or not to do. My wife is ill, she is having pain and struggling with it. How we both can surrender ourselves near lord hanuman.

I loved you lord hanuman somewhere in my life, I loved the simplicity , the purity of people explained here. I don't want to know what is written in my Bhagya. But still is there any chance ,me and my wife can cross this birth with the name of Lord Ram.

Please guide us.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

To get a better future, first you need to accept the present as it is. You cannot run away from your present. Lord Ram remained in jungle for so many years in peace. He showed the humanity how to live in present moment with happiness. "Good" and "bad" are temporary. You have to rise above both good and bad. There is something beyond good and bad and that is permanent. Realize that.

Blessings


809. jai sri ram...jai hanuman

mo experience bahut hi amazing thila. mo saha kali ratire eipari kichi asubidha heichi.kintu mu kichi bujhi paruni. pls prabhu mora sahajya karantu.au mo life ra sabu problem ta apana janichanti. mora problem dura karantu prabhu pls. mu mora sabu dukha apanaka hatare chadideuchi prabhu.apana hin saha mora....jai sri hanumanji..

810. Jai Sriram

I am very for having found this Setuu community who are helping sinned mortals like to connect with my lord hanumanji.. I was also lucky to get a charan pooja booked in the month of may but there was no personal message communicated to me by lord hanuman after pooja.. but never mind, i'm glad that my devotion towards him is more intense now.

I am unconsciously getting more connected with hanumanji. I recently came across sundarakanda and its significance. I have started reading each chapter at home now. Though my fluency in sanskrit is average, I've been able to pick it up slowly . Thanks to few online materials which were printed in english.

I'm sure my journey to seek blessings from immortal anjaneyar is a success. I would be very happy if you can convey this to lord himself during daily pooja performed by mathangs.

Thanks to lord again and to mathangs and to Setuu community.

Jai siya ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

There was a message for everyone who was part of Charan pooja. In upcoming chapters, you will be surprised to know many things about yourself. There are thousands and thousands of pages. It may take time for us to decode all the chapters but you will surely read message for you in upcoming chapters if you were a part of Charan Pooja. We cannot tell in which chapter will you find a mention.

And yes, every Experience posted here becomes a part of Sakshat Hanuman Pooja.

Blessings


811. JAI SRIRAM

Before getting into this site i was having so many confusions, but after reading two chapters, i felt Hanumanji has given me confidence that he is always with me. JAI SRIRAM

812. JAI VEER HANUMAN

I READ THIS MATHANGS CHAPTER TODAY!!! MY SURRENDER TO LORD HANUMAN
ON HIS LOTUS FEET!!! MY SUFFERINGS WILL BE RESOLVED BY THE LORD!!! JAI ANJANERYEAR! JAYA JAYA ANJANEYAR!! JAYA JAYA JAYA ANJANEYAR!!!

813. Jai veer Hanuman, Jai Siya Ram.......

O lord o prabhu, bless me,bless me with peace of mind and hapiness., let i be a good soul, let i get fame for good reasons, let my hard work gives me fruit, let i get evry luxury and peace in life,let my maa, baba, niha, chayanika, my frnds, and al be happy, u know i care for them, let i be with chayanika for al my life happily, let i and dimpi be best of friends al our life, let my father mother and sis be happy for always,make them disease free and happy, bless us lord,bless us with al hapiness...i wana chant Lord Ramas name in my heart for ever, let i be in right path, let i hav my own house, my family, my car, my daughther, my son, my wife, my mom dad sis my frnds, let al be happy for right reasons, let the world be happy, let the girls be free who are kidnapped, let the family be happy whose members died in war , accident or bomb blast, or natural death, giv courage to the cowards, give light to who are in darkness, give wisdom to who are fool. Cure them who are fighting for there life, give them food who are hungry, giv them shelter who lives in road, give them clothes who has nothing to wear,lord o baba come to my dream, show me right path, bless me and be with me always, meet me lord, wana see u feel u besides me...bless me, Jai shree Ram.......


814. Jai Veer Hanuman...Om Hanumantayee Namahaa

How can I get connected to Lord hanumanji in the Kal yug and seek his blessings to full fill my responsibilities and move ahead towards moksha. I have read the tree chapters but still I have not got the mantra to get connected to Laord hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Here is your first line:

Kaaltantu Kaarecharanti Enar Marishnu
Nirmukter Kaaletwam Amarishnu
Please note, it is "Kaare" in 2nd word and "Kaale" in 6th word. Notice the difference of "r" and "l"

Meaning of these words is enshrined in 3rd chapter. Literal meaning is: Kaal = Time, Tantukaare= web of strings, Charanti=Moving, Enar=This, Marishnu=Mortal,Nirmukter=Free, Kaale= From Time, Twam= You, Amarishnu= Immortal

This is first line of 36 lines which can be recited to meet Lord Hanuman. We shall release more lines when Lord Hanuman directs us to do so.
Ram


815. JATIN PARMAR

HAIN MALIK PARDATA MAIN PAHELA ADHAYA ADHA PADHA TO MUJHE KAMPARI CHHUT GAI MUJHE HANUMANJI PE BAHUT BHAROSA HAI MAIN BHI NAHUT PAPI HU
MUJSE KUCHH BHUL HO TO MAFF KARDENA. MAINE HANUMAN KAA NAAM LEKE DEKHAA HAIN ISSE HAR KAAM SAHI HO JATA HAI......

JAY SHREE RAM........

816. Jay Govinda das

Today I happened to see a video ... just before I saw Hanuman's picture and the story of Mathangs. The video was quite funny, almost like in some dream; people were fighting with each other using mobile phones - & for the sake of mobiles ! And in the end, last picture showed a man opening his shirt - and revealing his bare chest, with a drawing of an apple - indicating the company he is fighting for (Apple). That brought in my mind a vivid remembrance of Hanuman tearing open his own bare chest and revealing the darshan of Sita-Rama in his divine heart ... A moment after that I saw your Mathang webpage, and felt that what I had memorized earlier during the video, was only an auspicious sign or an omen indicating Hanuman's direct presence.

817. jay hanuman

muje bahut accah laga he ye sab janakar ki hanumam mere matango ke purvaj he our aaj bhi vo haamre beech me he me harday se Setuu ka aabhar vyakt karata hu jeesake vajah se muje ye janakari prapat hui he

jay shree ram

818. Jay Hanuman

Hi

I m bittu 28yrs old.

Life me mene bahot kuch kia he jo karna chahie tha nai karna chahie tha sab kia.

Abhi kitne mahino se mera ek bhi kam nai ho pa rahe he last 4 month se 1rs bhi kamai nai hue he jitne kam ho jayega esa soch k kia vo ek bhi kam last moment pe aake nai hota he.

God saja de raha he ya kya pata nai.

Hanuman ji mere sapne me aate the aaj se 2 3 mahine pehle aur aate he vo aur me sat ka fast bhi rakhana suru kia he mene har roj hanuman chalisha bhi karte he .

God esa kyu kar rahe koe galat kam ho gaya he mujse ?? Kisi ka dil dukha dia he mene??

Aur esa kucb hua he to muje batao me jo hhi hua he mere se uski mafi mang lu kyu k 3 4 mahine se 1rs bhi kamai nai hue he pata nai mere dil me esa sab aate he k kya karu plz solve it.

Setu Speaks: 
निम्न 4 बातों का ख्याल रखें -
(1) आप में अपने लक्ष्य को पूरा करने की तीव्र इच्छा होनी चाहिए |
(2) उन इच्छाओं को पूरा करने के लिए आवश्यक प्रयास करें अन्यथा आपकी आत्मा उन लक्ष्यों को इस संसार में पूरा करने की बजाय स्वपन लोक में पूरे कर लेगी |
(3) अपने दिल दिमाग में “भय” “चिंता” आदि नाम के असुरों को जगह न बनाने दे अन्यथा हनुमान जी को लगेगा कि आप उनकी बजाय असुरों को अपने दिल दिमाग में रखना पसंद करते हैं | बाधाएं दूर करने के लिए हनुमान जी की सहायता प्राप्त करने के लिय यह अति आवश्यक है |
(4) अपनी प्रार्थना को सरल रखें | अपनी प्रार्थना अपने और प्रभु के बीच रहने दें उसमे आप परिवार , समाज तथा अन्य लोगो को शामिल न करें | सही प्रार्थना - “हे प्रभु मेरी आवश्यकताए पूरी करें ताकि मै मोक्ष के मार्ग पर चल सकूँ |” गलत प्रार्थना - “मेरे जीवन में फलां व्यक्ति को ले आयें , मेरे परिवार को ऐसा करें , मेरे समाज को ऐसा करें|” आप जितने लोगो को अपनी प्रार्थना में शामिल करेंगे उतने लोगो के कर्म रोड़ा बनते जायेंगे | आपके कर्मों के रोड़े काफी हैं , किसी अन्य के रोड़े मत लायें | जब आपकी इच्छा पूरी होगी तो आपके आस पास के लोगो को खुद ब खुद सहायता मिलेगी |

819. Jay Hanuman

I will never foget that incidence which came as a storm in my family and also I can not forget, how prabhu Hanumanji came in the form of people that brought lot of courrage and patience , and with so many blessings that helped my 18 months old baby to come back to us from critical condition .
Me and my husband started to pray hanumanji for my baby the day he was admitted in the hospital and told by doctor as critical .and since we started to read maruti stotra and hanuman chalisa we found great recovery in our baby.and now he is all right by hanumanji and God's grace.
I hope Hanumanji will be with us forever now.In fact we want him with us always ,and bless us for always being happy and healthy.
I can not express my thanks in words.still Thank you very much Dear God for being with us and helping us in our bad time.will it be possible that Hanumanji will be with us always?please guide me?I have many questions regarding life and moksha from many years.Can anybody guide me properly so that I can satisfy?

Thank you.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You can start your queries here one by one. They will be sent to Setuu Masters. If questions are sincere, they may be discussed in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja and you may get answers from Setuu Masters, Mathangs or Lord Hanuman.

Blessings

820. jay hanuman. jay balaji maharaj

Mujhe bahut achcha laga mujhe bahut khusi hui..me hanuman ji ke chamatkaro ki kahani padta hu ya unse judi koi b chij mujhe bahut achchi lagti he.
Meri balaji mahar se bas yahi pradhna he ki meri job jaldi se lagba de. Jisse me jyada se jyada daan dharm punya kar saku..job ke rupe se or sare tirth kar saku or is duniya se moksh prapt kar saku.sab par daya karne bale balaji maharaj meri b jaldi se jaldi aarji Shubhikar kare ,jay shri Raam.

821. Jay Hunuman Dada

He Dada ! apka pahela adhyay padhane bad muje mere man or aatma se halka mahasus ho raha he, jese koe boz hat gaya ho.
Mere under naye utsah, prerana ka aehasas ho raha he .
shakti , shanti or Dada ki kripa ko feel kar rahi hu.Thankkkkk you Dada.
Apaki kripa aese hi muj par , meri family par or pure vishva par banaey rakhenga .
Jay Shri Ram

822. Jay shree Raam.

mene kal hi 12 va adyay padha or use padhke mere sanshay dur ho gaya or maa ganga sa saxatkar bhi go gaya. yah adyay padhne ke bad muje nind aa gayi thi or jab me jaga to muje alag hi anubhav hua. pata nahi esa kyu hua par muje ye yakin ho gaya he ki maa ganga ke samip me pahucha hunga or muje ma gaanga ne apne sanidhya me lekar muje ashirwad diya he.

jay shrree raam.
jay shri hanuman

823. jay shree Ram...!

He Hanumanta aap meri pranam grahan kijiye....aur Hume apka ashirwad dijiye...! Humara jeevan bhaktimoy,gyandipto,shantimoy ho. ...! Jay Mahabir....!

824. jay shree Ram...!

He Hanumanta meri pranam Graham kijiye.apka ashirwad humpe banaye rakhiye....! Humara jeevan bhaktimay,shantimay,ahankar shoonya,krodhmukta,anandmay,tejoshwi,gyandiptamay ho..!
.! Jay Hanuman!


825. jay shree ram

me apna experience yaha share karna nahi chahta kyuki jab se mene setu ki site ki visit ki he tabse muje is sanatan dharm ki mahanta or bhagvan shree ram ke sevak shir hanuman dada ke bare me bahut ku6 pata chala he.par me ek sawal pu6na chahta hu ki. log pap puny ki bat karte he to kya

pap ke bhagidar kab bana jata he.?

jab karm karte he tab ya karm ke bare me sochte he tab....

jay shree ram

Setu Speaks: 
कर्म के बारे में सोचना भी एक कर्म है |

कर्म का अलग फल होता है और कर्म के बारे में सोचने का अलग फल होता है |


826. JAy Shree Ram

Jay Shri RAm

Kya me Apna Question Matango ki puja ke dhwara Bhagvan Hanumanji ko Puch Sakata hu
agar ha to.

KRupiya Meri Or se Vinanti kijiyenga ki Prabhu Krupa Karke" Apne Suraybhagvan Ko Fal Samjakr Khaya tha Us Vakt ka Vivaran Apke Shabdo me kijiye Jis se hum log Dhanya ho sake. Or kya hum Matango ki Is Sakshat Puja me Sammilit HO Sakte he.

Jay Shree Raam.

827. jay shree ram jiki

Sir mene suna he ki kalki avtar kaliyug me hoga...lekin hanuman dada ke kathan anusar kalki avtar me bhagvan ne 99 lakh suro ko bachaya to.
Kya sach he.
Kya sach me kalki avtar ho chuka he.

Setu Speaks: 
श्रीमान जी ,

कृपया अध्याय को एकाग्रता के साथ पढ़ा कीजिये | अगर मन एकाग्र नहीं है तो बिलकुल भी मत पढ़िए क्योंकि गलत तरीके से पढने से अच्छा है बिलकुल भी नहीं पढना | 99 लाख सुरों को बचाया था यह आपने कहाँ पढ़ा ? सुर 33 करोड़ है | और कलियुग पहली बार नहीं हो रहा है , पहले भी कलियुग हुए हैं | यह क्रम में चलता रहता है | यह कलियुग ख़त्म होगा तो फिर से सतयुग आएगा , फिर त्रेता , फिर द्वापर और फिर से कलियुग आएगा | ऐसे ही क्रम चलता रहता है | हनुमान जी ने पिछले कलियुग के अंत की कहानी बताई है छठे अध्याय में |


828. jay shree ramji ki

Continued from #373072

Muje bahot khushi huyi janke....
Par ab bhi mere dimag me kafi shankaye or galatfemiya he....
Muje ye jan na he ki.....

Apne dimag me ane vale kharab vicharo ko kese nasth kiya jaye or kese har vakt prabhu shree ram ka dyan bana rahe

Muje batane ki krupa kare.

Jay shree ram

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

विचारों को रोकने की कोशिश मत करो | केवल उन्हें "observe" करों और उन्हें आने और जाने दो | आप एक आत्मा हैं , आप एक मन नहीं हैं | इसलिए मन के स्तर पर मत गिरो | मन का स्वभाव ही है विचारों को जन्म देना | आत्मा के स्तर पर उठो जो हमेशा शांत रहती है |

|| राम ||

829. jay shreeram

he prabhu this is a 100% conform ki me kbhi bhi koi bhi problem me hota hu to 1 bar jay shreeram aur jay hnuman bolta hu aur meri saari problem end hoke mere saare kaam pure ho jaate he, bus ese hi aap hmesha mere dil me always rhna thank you.....

830. Jay Shri Ram

Maine Setu asia ki 14 adhaya ko pdha. AAtma Halki lag rhi thi. Jeevan m bhut sare taklif h. meri aatma ko v buri aatma gher k rkhi. Kosi ki ki mai apni aatma ko shudh kru.. per avi tk kch tarike se hui. kripaya mere kasto ko har le aur mjhe pawitra bna d. mere anek kast h. unko v bhagwan se prathna krta hoo ki har le.


831. JAY SHRI RAM JI JAY HANUMAAN JI

MUJE BHAGWAN SHRI RAM JI KE BHAKT BHAGWAN HANUMAAN JI K BARE ME READ KARKE BAHUT ACHCHA LAGAA AUR JAB-JAB BHAGWAN HANUMAN JI K BARE ME READ KIYA TO MERE SAREER ME EK NAYEE URJA KA AHSAAS HUA AUR AATMA KO BAHUT SHANTI MILI AUR AAGE KA KOI ADHYAAY MILE TO AAP JARUR HAM TAK DE JISSE HAM JAISE SAANSAARI LOGO KI SARNAGATI BHAGWAAN KI TARAF HO AUR HAM MOKSH (BHAGWAAN ) KI PRAPTI KAR SAKE JISSE MANUSYA JEEVAN JO MILA HAI VO SARTHAK HO SAKE AUR BABA MATANG MUNI JI KI KRIPA HAM SAB ASAHAY JEEVO PAR HAMESHA BANI RAHE


832. jeevan ka such

Kay bar man ke anukul kam na hone par bhagwan se vemukh hua par bad me mahasus hua jo hota hai ache ke liye hota hai phir unper vishwas dugana hua jab bhagwan na bach pay to hum kay hai per iksha jer pel janam lete hai aur unko pura karne ke liey bagwan ko bolti hai mera prashan hai ke kay prabhi se bar bar kahane se man ke bat pure hoti hai

833. Jeevan me santulan banye rakhte huye apni prakriti ko sanymit karke kaise aapki taraf bdoon

Jai Shree Ram!!!

Jai Shri DasharathNanadanParamDas!

Prabhu aaj se 5 saal pehle aapke gyan bhakti aur karm ki rah per teji se chal pada tha lekin ab ye Shunyta kyon anubhav hoti hai ..Prabhu Margdarshn kre aur apne sannidhya me le..

Jai shree Ram!!!

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप .

यह शुन्यता भी उसी यात्रा का एक भाग है | चलते रहिये | जैसे कोई विमान पहले तेजी से रन वे पर दौड़ता है लेकिन जब हवा में उठ जाता है तब गति कम और शुन्यता सी अधिक महसूस होती है , वैसे ही भक्ति मार्ग पर भी होता है

|| राम ||


834. jignasha patel

!! Jay Hanuman !!

Pls take all my karmas, you save my life …..

gaided me & help me everytime ….
Sankat kate mite sab pira, jo sumire hanumant balbira !!!!

!! JAY HANUMAN !!

835. job

I had experience that the moment i lose the connection with hanumanji, i face troubles. The moment i reconnect with him, i get momentum. My major problem is my job. I m unable to get the job or any source of income that will settled my life. I facing job issues from 2011. Please help me hanumanji

PleadPlPleadPPleadPlPleaPleadPlPlPleadPlPleadPleP

836. job

When do I get a new job?

Setu Speaks: 
https://www.facebook.com/SetuuHanuman/photos/a.1699777856912153.10737418...

837. Job dilemma

Jai sriram

im trying to get govt job n settle in india.but im not getting any.im overthinking about that.
Instead im getting abroad opportunities and im rejecting them.

Donno when i will get solution for this.even my age limit ia geting closer.

Jai hanuman

838. A job of my liking & other wishes!

O Lord Hanuman, I bow before you!

I have been struggling to find a job for last 9 months now. Maybe my efforts are falling short or it is destined to take time. I do not know and am confused. I pray to you to help me find a job soon and one which is worth this long wait.

Also, I wish that my daughter Tanvee gets cured of her speech problem soon, she stammers at times. Also my wife Deepa is happy always and does not have to endure physical & mental stress because of her travel and work.

As a mortal human being, I too have certain desires to be fulfilled. I pray to you, O Lord Anjaneya to fulfill those wishes of mine.

Naman, O Lord!

Setu Speaks: 
Take care of these 4 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear" and "worry" etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.


839. JOURNEY OF MY SOUL

Ever since ,I have started reading these holy writings, I am somewhat convinced about the purpose of my "coming here".As it is the, strong feeling in myself is,that I did come here for some useful purpose/aim and for serving the people in general, and people of state of ANDHRA PRADESH,(IN INDIA) IN particular.I could somewhat visualise/imagine the "route"WHICH this SOUL HAS TAKEN AND (1) PASSED THROUGH VARIOUS STAGES OF PERIOD(from birth to this place),IN ,TIME AND SPACE"(2) As if pre-determined, at every turning point in my, career and life,during these, 74 years, some form or the other ,DIVINE intervention did influence/shaped/altered/saved myself. The circumstances at every turning point in my life/career were really unexplainable.
And finally, coming into contact with this blog and web-site also, I consider, as some DIVINE intervention,and FOR WHICH PURPOSE/AIM/TASK OF THE SUPREME, I JUST CAN NOT MAKE OUT.. I JUST WAIT WAIT WAIT...
MY LOVE, THANKS TO LORD HANUMAN


840. journey by train

One day while getting down from a moving train i moved to last third step of coach but was not able to get down due to speed of train, mean while train approached to platform and I was not aware of the risk I was going towards. suddenly heard a loud wake up call from behind and than recognize the threat and moved upwards.

After the train stopped got down from the train to see nobody behind. Still a mystery for me, If that person has not called from behind both my legs would have been crushed between platform and train stairs.
====================================================================

841. judgement day .

Continued from #519204 

Gurudev ko sat sat naman
Gratitude setuu...

kuch deno pehle mein ye soch raha tha ki kab or kaise es duniya ka end hoga ...
Setuu hanuman leelas mein bhagwan shiv vinas ka tandav katenge or earth pighal jayegi jab bhagwan kalki 1000 crore aatma human soul ke pass 7 bar gaye aur unh mein se 99 lakh soul ne samarpan kiya....

Earth ki population 740 crore approx ,eska matlab 260 crore aatma ka janm baaki hai jo 1.3 percent growth se 2056 mein ho jayeg,i it can varies depend upon lord.jo aaj se thik 39 years baad hai ...

Eska matlab mathang urva ka darr sahi hai ki hanuman gurudev unke pass last time 2014 mein aaye haiii.jab baba mathang ne kha" isse se pehle earth destroy ho jayegi..."...

Urmi bhi vishnulok apni un fulfilled desires ko sawapna lok mein pUri kerne ke liye puch rahi thi or bhagwan kalki ke aagman ke baare mein lOrd vishnu ne bataya ki mein samay samay pe aata rahunga or mujhe pehchan logi )eska matlab uRMI ko esi birth janm mein bhagwan kalki ke barreen mein pata lagega or darshan honge.Urmi 20 se 30 years ki hogi aur world ke 39 saal bache hai.

Sab kuch jald hone vala hai...not sure but rinding my mind horses.

Lord kalki will help soul to surrender in what way?it may be lIke seven plague of moses i think ..seven tragedies. .seven incident.to each soul.

I am afraid people soul will not take holy book sseriously .maybe i am wrong..
I am praying for be servant of my lOrd kalki in this kalpa .
Date and place all i seek.
I am not eager aor tensed but waiting for serving the one.

842. just read

gratitude setuu..
gurudev ko pranam

once i was watching a harry potter film prisoner of azkaban .in this movie a mythical flying creature buckbeak(horse eagle faced )was flying across the river .may be it was 2004 .i copied this scene in my postured and stared flying ,touched the river while sitting in the room. i did two times but when i wanted to do third time it doesn't happened.

i thought it was my mind malfunctioning and my imagination.please reply on this.

now i know but i am trying, here i is 0 .

i know it is hard to reply.

but i ask i am god and everything is just my reflection.how my mother sister my reflection .they doesnot have interest in moksha.they are quite opposite of me.
please tell me about bramha yog .if lord kalki does bramha yog everyone gets enlightens.just like lord laxman got the real tadka then whats the use of other people to
realise the truth.

sometimes i feel lack of concentration .i feel dead.i have no control on my mind.what is the problem.

please suggest me to what i do.

||ram||

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Start seeking advice from within and not without so that Lord Hanuman can guide your path.

Blessings


843. Just Sharing Feelings..

Dear Sirs,

Via last mail I asked "If Sh. Hanuman Ji is an avtar of lord Shiva", I found below link where website is saying YES.

http:// hindi. insistpost. com/19 -avatars -of-bhagwan -shiv/10/

Also want to share one thing with your good selves as I think you people has a better understanding of LORD than me:
I have an younger brother who is specially gifted with IQ level equivalent to a 10 years old kid, he is 33 years old now. My parents both mother and father have suffered a lot because of the same. Specially my mother, who alone is taking care of the KID for last 33 years.

All the time they are worried about his future. What will happen after them? Who will take care of KID? Even trying to marry him, to ensure that he has someone to take care after them.

I have said numerous times that I am here, and would take care of him as long as I am alive. But that s not enough to convince them. There worry is constant and rather increasing with time.

I have no clue what to do to ensure comfort level of my parents. All are god gifts, my parents, my brother, my wife, my son. And I am more than happy to accept my lord's gifts.

Can you please suggest a better way out to avoid this continuous tension of my parents.

I would be highly obliged for your guidance.

Best regards,

Shishir Vats
Delhi - India

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Ancient knowledge which is available presently is not the original knowledge. It has been interpreted multiple times and has been distorted. Hence we would not like to say anything on the basis of distorted knowledge. We would wait for deciphering of Lord Hanuma's Kaliyuga words regarding his relationship with Lord Shiva.

When Lord Ram left home for Vanvaas of 14 years, he didn't do so to "ensure comfort level" of His parents. In fact, He left His parents grieving. His father Dashratha left the mortal body in grief. Lord Ram left for Vanvaas in order to follow His Dharma. You should also follow only your Dharma. Comfort levels of other souls is not in your hand. You may left the path of Dharma if you try to ensure comfort levels. After all DhritRashtra became the cause of Mahabharata war just to ensure comfort level of his son. Hence, focus only on your Dharma. ...

Blessings...


844. Kaise ji jaye zindgi

mere mann me bahut hi uthal puthal chalti h mujhe samajh me nhi aata ki jeevan me kya karu ya kya nhi main apne parivar ko bahut khush rakhna chah raha hu but koi rasta nhi dikh raha kripya Hanuman bhagwan mujhe rasta dikhane ka kast kare main unhe dher sara khush dekhna chahta hu dher sare paise kamana chahta jis se main sabki madad kar saku main raste chalte aaye din dekhta hu takleef me logo ko aisa kare prabhu ki koi dukhi na rahe . kripya humara margdarshan kariye prabhu. Jai Sri Ram

845. Kala Sarpa Yoga

I have in my birth chart: Kala Sarpa Yoga.

Saturn & Sun are in my first house with Saggitarius rising.

Ketu is in my fourth house and Rahu is in my 10th House.

Venus and Moon are in my 11th house.

Mars, Mercury and Jupiter are in my 12th house.

My life has been full of challenges with relationships finances and health issues. My family whom I have been devoted to distanced themselves from me 4years ago and my mother has always interefered in my life and relationships in an effort to control me.

I pray to Lord Hanuman to release me from ALL the evil effects of Kala Sarpa Yoga and bless me now with undepleting finances, perfect Health and a life partner who will respect me and love me.

846. Kalchakra

Jai Shree Ram
Jai Hanuman

I must say all my doubts, queries and questions are cleared by your replies and I am very much satisfied with your answers. Also, I feel relieved and content. More I interact with you, more thoughts come to my heart and mind.

As mentioned in chapter-6, this human world keeps on moving within 4 Yugs of Kalchakra and this 4 Yugs of Kalchakra constitute a Kalp. We are in the last phase of Kalchakra i.e. Kaliyug. After sometime, this Kaliyug will come to an end then there will again start a new Kalp. Again, 4 Yugs of Kalchakra will be repeated - Satyug, Tretayug, Dwaparyug and Kaliyug.

Now, my question is will again the same thing happen in Satyug as told by lord Hanuman in chapter-6? Will there be again the same Surlok and Asurlok as described by lord Hanuman? In Tretayug, will again lord Vishnu incarnate as Ram and come to earth? Will lord Hanuman take birth again? Will Ravan also take birth and kidnap mata Sita? Will the story of Ramayan be repeated again? Similarly, in Dwaparyug, will lord Vishnu be again born as Krishna? Will lord Krishna repeat all his leelas again? Will Kaurvas and Pandavas be born again? Will Mahabharat be fought again between Kaurvas and Pandavas? Similarly, in Kaliyug, will everything happen in the same way as it is happening now?

In all these 4 Yugs, will each and every thing be repeated? Will the same person or character take birth again with different souls because some of them might have attained Moksha?

How many Kalp has passed as of now? How many Kalchakra of 4 Yugs has revolved as of now? How many Kalp will pass from now onwards? How many Kalchakra of 4 Yugs are yet to revolve in future? Or will it continue forever one Kalp after another Kalp and one Kalchakra of 4 Yugs after another Kalchakra of 4 Yugs? Is it a never ending process?

Please answer these.

Thanks and Regards.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Yes, everything shall be repeated again.

As for your next question, you are missing the essence here. For human beings, 24 hours = 1 day+night which gets repeated again and again. So 24 hours is a cycle which gets repeated again and again.Lets call it "Day Cycle".

Then there is a year = 365 days. Year is also a cycle which gets repeated again and again.Lets call it "Year Cycle"

Now you can say that when 365 identical day cycles complete then a larger "year cycle" completes.

Similarly 4 Yugas= Kalpa and Kalpa is a cycle.

When let us say X Kalpa cycles complete, there is another bigger cycle gets completed.

There is no point in getting into numbers. The seeker should only grasp the essence i.e. the cyclic nature of things.

Blessings


847. Kalki Avatar

Jaise mei chapter 6 pad rha tha meine padha bhagwan vishnu kaliyug mei avatar lege KALKI naam ka jo sbka uddhar krega apni knowledge se. Isliye mei ye smjha hu hume ye nhi sochna chahiye ki kalki kahan, kab aur kaise avatar lege hum ye sochna chahiye hume unke shastra i.e knowledge ka dhyn dena chahiye. Mere experience se ap jo bhi kaam kar rhe hai agr aap usme apna 100% de rhe hai then you are doing gud karma and if not then it is bad karma because in kaliyug both Assura and Surra reside in same body only. Sirf desire ko chahne se kaam nhi hota usme apna 100% dena hi acha hota hai. And jis insan ne apne liye acha kr liya bina kisi aur ko nuksan pahuchae hue vahi MOKSH ko prapt krega. MANU ne sirf ek flower pluck krna chaha uska dukh tha jo ki iss duniya ko Surrah ki dharti se ordinary dharti bna diya kyuki usme ap dusre ko dukh de rhe the. Isliye aisa kaam kre jisse dusre ko dukh na ho. But mujhe aisa lagta hai iss duniya mei apne ko khush rkhne ke liye dusre ka dukhi hona jruri ho gya. Ap apna ghar chalane ke liye kaam krege. Agar apka business krege then ap kisi ko naukar rkhege ap uska 7000INR pay kr rhe hai apke hisab se ap usko enough pay kr rhe hai but uski desire hai ki usko jyada mile phir hum phas gae ap apne hisab se sahi hai but uske hisab se galat. Ab isko kis mei ginege ap GOOD or BAD. But atlast i concluded that give your 100% and rest left on GOD.


848. kalki avter

i have read that kalki will be born in shamvhala village in the pure brahamins family of vishnuasya & sumati.but as per my human brain knowlage i read in a book that in our earth their is no shamvhala village.so i wonder where is shamvhala? is shamvhala is in another world? or it is in earth but hidden in dimentions? or normal human eyes cant see it???? plz answer my questions & i really really wanna ask how can i open a portel to go another world of my choice with my phisycal body plz tell me i need to go in a certain world.that world was related to my past life & i dont remember anything about my past life just know that i should go their so plz matangas help me. take care of everyone & i hope u will reply thank you

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

With the help of knowledge revealed so far in 10 chapters, we hope that you have learned how to detach the body from the soul. More advanced knowledge shall be revealed later.

As far as Lord Kalki is concerned, we would not speculate on the basis of old scriptures which are highly compromised. We will wait for revelation from Lord Hanuman's recent Leelas.

Blessings


849. Kalp ke ant me pichle kalp ke suron aur asuron ka kya hota hai?

Jai shree Ram!

Kalp ke ant me pichle kalp ke sur aur asuron ka kya hota hai ? kya ye bhi Shivji ki vinash leela me smapt ho jate hain..ya fir ye bache rhte hain..inke karmo ka nirnay kaise hota hai agle kalp ke prarambh se pehle?

Jai Shree DashrathNandanParamDas (Hanumanji)...

Ram ji se Ram-Ram kahiyon Hanumanji....

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

पिछले कल्प के सुरों और असुरों की भगवान् कल्कि की दया से मुक्ति हो जाती है क्योंकि वे पूरे एक कल्प तक बंधन की सजा भोग चुके होते हैं |

|| राम ||


850. kalp ke vinaash ke pratyaksh chihan kya hai.

jai shree hanuman.
mujh aatma ko yeh jaanney ka vichar aaya hai ki jaisa ki aapne bataya hai ki hanuman ji jab 41 saal baad pratyaksh saamney aatey hai aur tatva gyan dete hai to yeh kalp ke ant ka suchak hai, mujh aatma ko yeh jaan naa hai ki kalp ke vinaash ke wo pratyaksh chihan kya hotey hai jinne hum aatmaye samajh sakey. kya bhagwaan kalki ke aaney ke kuch samay baad hee vinash leela shuru ho jayegi. kya bhagwaan kalki iss yug mein avtarit hokar rajya nahin karengae kya. aur agar karengae to kitne samay ke liye. iss kalp ke vinaash ka ab kitna samay bacha hai. ek vishesh prashan aur utha hai ki kya koi aisa upay hai jissey iss sharir mein na to sur aaye aur na hee asur balki inke sthan par parmatma aa jaye.

Setu Speaks: 
भगवान् कल्कि के अवतरण के बारे में जब पूरी जानकारी मिलेगी तो आपको सूचित किया जायेगा _| अभी तक जो अध्याय समझे गए हैं उनमे यह सूचनाएँ सामने नहीं आई हैं | आगे आने वाले अध्यायों में आ सकती हैं |

आपके सुर असुर वाले प्रश्न का उत्तर 7 वें अध्याय में निहित है | जिसमे लिखा गया है - "अगर कोई असुर कोई बुरा कार्य करने के लिए आपकी देह में मंडरा रहा है तो आप उसका प्रयास एक बार असफल कर देंगे तो वह पुनः नहीं आएगा और आपसे दूर चला जायेगा |"


851. kalpna(IMAGINATION)

we are real pupets of this creature including all .some are powerful and some are uses to make some one power full BUT MY QUESTION IS WHAT IS MOKSHA is it nessesaty for human only?why not for hanuman ji?because all are creature of God The target , The achiver and the process. ALL are made by supremo What is beyond the moksha?What happen in moksha
Actually we are part of supremo play We are fitted with ,charged ,and send to earth WE THINK WE ARE ,BUT WE ARE NOTHING

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Some souls choose to serve Lord Vishnu in VishnuLoka instead of getting Moksha. Lord Hanuman is one such soul. He stays in VishnuLoka during Satyuga and after that He is sent by Lord Vishnu to MaanavLoka for helping Him in welfare of the world. Though the ultimate destiny of a soul is Moksha. VishnuLoka is one step before Moksha.

Blessings

852. kalyug

Ham nahi jante hamen kitna anubhaw hai. Par aaj kal adhar bahot bad gaya hai is dharti par na Jane kab iska Nash hoga

853. karm ka importance

geeta me bhagwan ne kaha h ki jo kuch bhi ho chuka h aur jo ho rha h aur jo hone wala h wo meri marji se hi h , to fir apne karmo ka kya fayda h

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

आप कही से एक लाइन पढ़ते हो और अपने दिमाग की फैक्ट्री से उस लाइन पर ओपिनियन बनाना शुरू कर देते हो | अगर आपका उद्देश्य प्रभु को पाना है तो पूर्ण ज्ञान ग्रहण करो | आपने अगर हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के सभी अध्याय गंभीरता से पढ़े होते तो आप यह प्रश्न नहीं करते | आपको समझ आ जाता कि कर्म के सिद्धांत क्या हैं और भाग्य क्या हैं | लेकिन यह कलियुग है , आपका मन असुरो से जकड़ा हुआ है , आपको ज्ञान भी फ़ास्ट फ़ूड की तरह चाहिए , तो आप भगवान् कल्कि का इन्तजार कीजिये |

||राम||


854. karma

Jai Sri Ram

What is the best way to wash out bad karma in these kaliyug? Is it possible in this mechanical world and all negative people around you! what is the best way to purify soul and negative attitude in a person in present hectic world?

M. ARVIND. Rao.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Negativity around you doesn't matter once you realize that the world begins with you. There is no reality without an observer and observer is you. The negativity will stop affecting once you realize your soul. The storm in the ocean which you see all around does not matter once you hold on to the anchor i.e. your soul.

To realize the soul there are two ways-- (1) Knowledge i.e. the Supreme Knowledge (2) Devotion.

Choose the path which suits you. If you are kind of a person who likes to question things, then go for the supreme knowledge. If you are kind of a person who indulges in emotions rather than questions, go for devotion.

Blessings


855. Karma and Soul

I just finished reading the 5th chapter and I am totally feeling blessed to be one among so many on this planet to get the divine knowledge...each and every word in the chapters are so powerful and wonderful that I feel I had done some good karma in my previous birth to be able to read the leelas of lord hanuman and his words....I had a doubt after reading the 5th chapter and that is - lord hanuman wanted to save urmi from death and at same time wanted to grant the last wish of ram Narayan so he taught urmi the skill of flying out of human body and returning back but if any other human being who truly tries this and even though it might seem to be impossible for mortal human beings if any person succeeds in it then will he/ she be able to leave their body and come back to it or if their soul gets entrapped in the other body then wat will happen to this body...and has this only happened with urmi or any other person in this world??

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Every human being has the freewill of soul. When all their senses "switch off" from outer world, their soul is free to roam within the radius of their "Karma Rope". It happens with everyone when they go to deep sleep and their mind stop responding to outer world. Their soul goes to "Swapan Loka" and fulfills its unfulfilled deep rooted desires.

Now the question is of controlled freewill of soul. Yogis practice to leave the body at will. They don't have to worry what will happen if they never return back to same body. Because that part is controlled by laws of Karma. If that soul has unfinished accounts with that body, it will come back. Many Yogis do not return to same body for many days. Their body keeps breathing. The nature keeps the body alive. Everything takes care of itself as per the rules of universe.

theoretically anyone can experience controlled freewill of soul but outer world keeps most people engaged. When people face sudden death of loved ones, they realize futility of outer world and switch off from it. Sometimes they get the out-of-body experiences. Again, everything happens as per rules of Karma. There is nothing arbitrary. So, no need to worry about coming back to body.

Blessings


856. Kartaviryaarjuna......

Dear Setuu

Sai Ram
Jai Hanuman

Accept my humble pranamas.

I experienced sweet smell of flowers while reading this chapter. Hmm....but still I am in bewilderment. Like I have a map in hand, legs to walk, eyes to see, all sense in good condition, but still can't reach the destination. Oh!!!!please don't say don't use your outward sense, use your inner eyes. That is my problem, I am not able to open my inner eyes. Everybody waits for spark to motivate themselves in spiritual life, but I think I need FIRE(lol).

Secondly, I have heard from the elderly about kartaviryarjuna as a person who will get back our lost things. There is a shloka which is recited by the person who has lost/ misplaced things and then he gets it back. How is it possible? How is it that our elders Incorporated shloka of a person who has fallen to lower level of existence. When he has not been able to help himself how and why are we??????????

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

A loss of any kind is an opportunity of enlightenment. The shlokas you are talking about don't beget you your lost things. They only help your loss turn into an opportunity. When Kartavirya lost his way in jungle, Rishis gave him the opportunity to elevate himself. They revealed the secret of Rishi community to him. Similarly, you pray to Rishis to turn your loss into an opportunity like they did for Kartavirya.

Blessings

857. kashi and ayodhya

visited kashi and ayodhya. great blessing. saw and experienced many things. visited many hanuman temples. all the time i had been thinking of offering fruits. in ayodhya, i thought, if i find monkeys and a fruit seller, i would definitely offer, and that if hanuman wishes , i'll succeed. all those who were with me went fast. i walked slowly wondering what would happen and i saw monkeys there. and then a fruit seller appeared. however he had very few fruits. i bought some guavas and hid them inside my sari pallu, as told by the fruit seller to avoid getting snatched by the monkeys. now i was lost and alone. finally reached rama's palace but couldn't enter. then we visited many hanuman temples and i was yet to offer the fruits. finally i found a hanuman temple where ram katha was going on. i thought anjaneya had to be there. there was peace and calm there. i made my offering and gave dakshina there. but the monkeys were missing as it was getting dark.i wonder if my offerings are accepted! the next day visited the bade hanuman in prayag. and the next day went to sankat mochan hanuman. on the way i wondered if i should offer fruits again. but they were not available. the temple was filled with monkeys! there was music and bhajans going on filled with bhakti. i felt as though hanuman was dancing in joy. i offered a ghee lamp there. did not feel like leaving so soon.i prostrated there in surrender and felt very light hearted. while returning, i found a fruit seller. now i was confused but thought anjaneya must have accepted and being kind must have understood. i don't know. now i am back. it was during this time , i got your manthra! was it a coincidence? don't know. my humble pranams to you my lord, to all at Setuu and the mathangs. sri ram jaya ram jaya jaya ram. sri anjaneyaya namah.


858. Kids

I have been married three years back.Am earning for a kid for years am not able to get one.Bless me oh god....Please show me some grace...I was told that if i keep a hanuman picture and keep kukkum on his tail for 48 days any wish would come true...I completed my 48 days....I think hanuman ji is protecting me from some other greater disaster by just postponing me to get conceived...Any girl born in this universe attains complete womanhood only after getting her kid.When will i attain that state of holding the bundle of joy in my hand.???There is not a single person around who dint ask me about having a kid...I feel like i must not go any where...I avoid going any auspicious functions as all come and ask me about having a kid and i return speechless..Hundred's of times i cry in loneliness...i don't show pain to my parents as they will get distressed more.....Hanuman ji when is the full stop going to be put for it....How long will i have to endure this pain?????is it not that having a child is equal to have basic things of life like food...shelter and clothes...Why am i denied of it??.People who got married after me have Kids and they are leading a very peaceful life.When i look at others i feel i must have made a big mistake in my other life and so am being punished this way....But be it anything if your grace rays touch us i am dame sure we will be forgiven of our sins....Hanumanji Please forgive and show me a way to add meaning to my life...

Really hoping for an Answer,

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You are doing a big mistake. You are letting others Karma affect you. Many devotees do this mistake. People will ask whatever they feel like asking. But it is up to you whether you take them on your head or not. When you listen to talk of others, do not let that talk reach your mind. Otherwise their negative Karma will affect your life. Learn to live without heeding to others opinion. Be happy the way you are and be proud of it. By heeding to others words, you are making Lord Hanuman's job difficult because you are collecting negative Karma of so many other people. Keep it between you and Lord. Just pray, "O Lord, fulfill my needs," That is it. Do not complicate the prayer. Then see the results!

Blessings


859. know about Mata Durga

respected setuu masters,
your chapters all the times brings us more closer to the reality.where we are living,what we are doing looking like a play and reality is something different.Now I find myself more doubtful about myself.what is to be done,how I can make myself able to find my lord? these questions make me more restless.I find that what I am doing in my life is waste.But I am a soldier so can't quite my service.planning for Sadhna after my retirement.sir I need your giidelines.please help me,so that I can find myself and purpose of my life.
sir, one more question please tell us about Mata Durga.holy festival of Navratri is allready making us blessed and I want to the facts what Mahaguru Hanuman told about Mata Durga.It is my humble request.I have heard many things but I believe mahaguru.please let me be blessed with his kripa.
pranaam.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

We are mortals doing the holy work assigned to us. Therefore, do not seek our guidance, seek guidance of Lord Hanuman. Keeping reading His words, you will find the way.

To know about Devi Durga, please read this article: http://www.setuu.org/anjaneya/508145/rare-description-9-forms-devi-durga...

||Ram||

860. To know the sting of life

Jai Shri Ram
While reading I came to know that we have 7 nos of strings to live our life, That farmer lady was having 13 sting, my question is that how many sting we can earn in our human life and how? Is there any maximum number?

Jai Hanuman Ji

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Purpose of life should ideally be Moksha, not earning of Kaal strings. Moksha means settling all the Karma and desires and ultimately merging identity with the supreme. On the other hand, earning strings of time means accumulating positive Karmas. If you accumulate positive Karmas, you will ideally reach in VishnuLoka or you will become a Surrah at end of time.

In case of women, every string of time has strands on it. Those strands can be matured and become strings. A maximum of 4,20,000 strands can be matured into strings.

Apart from that, a person, be it man or woman, can earn strings from KaalDeva by doing good deeds. There is no maximum for that but it is hard to earn strings. There are two types of good deeds - (1) Good deeds by nature (2) Good deeds by purpose. If you do good deeds for purpose of earning strings of Time, you can't earn even a single string. If you do good deeds without any purpose, then you will earn strings of time.

---

While fighting the evil of this world, make sure that you don't get dragged down by the evil into the evil.

|| Ram ||

861. ***********KOTI KOTI CHRAN SPARSE TO LORD SHRI HNUMAN JEE***********

*JAY SHRI HNUMAN JEE KI JAY*

My problem is that till now i can't meet a friend like hnuman as in ramayan ram had. I am asking this because from childhood i have a dream or need to get a friend like hnuman. Also currently I am too sad that i also can't meet my true soulmate like sita or radha. Please guide me or help me..

Thanks&
Lots of love &
Sadar *PRANAM*

*****************************************************************************************

862. kripa baba kripa

i have told lord hanuman who already knows everything about me n my family duped by a tantric in the name of sadguru. i ask for pardon for all misdeeds n bad words i did n used. forgive me and have mercy on me n my family. kripa karo daya karo kshama karo baba. . tumhaari anant akshay akhand kripa hi kevalam. sri ram jai ram jai jai ram

863. Krishna Jayanthi Blessing

HI setu master,
Convey my prayer to Hanumam ji.My bow to Lord Hanuman ji.Tomorrow is an auspicious day of Lord Vishnu(Krishna Jayanthi).On this day,I pray to Lord Vishnu and Lord Hanuman ji.Atleast hereafter please give me good job and make me happy.I beg on your feet Lord.You know which is good for me.So please give me a job with good satisfaction and give it soonly.I pray on your good day,please make my wish come true.I got to know through some website,Lord Vishnu gave darshan to one of your devotee and through he gave some instruction to remove all their obstacle from their life.Because in kali yuga people dont find time to pray to god,so he gave some simple way to get rid off their obstacle.Just three days before i came to know that.I think its your plan to get that for me.Thank you lord.Give me job soon,Keep my family healthy,wealthy,happy and i want to see you.Bless me and my family on Krishna Jayanthi.Now first thing is to get job.Give me that.

Jai Shri Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If there are obstacles, they are because of your own Karma. And those obstacles will get cleared by noone else but you. You have to clear them through your own Karma. God is always willing to help you if you follow the four points given to you earlier.

Blessings


864. KYA AAJ BHI PAHLE KI HI TARAH GOD SE MIL SAKTE HAI ?

Me bhi aap sab ki tarh use Manta hu jise aaj ki murkh duniya nahi mantu
me Bhagavan ko mahsus kar sakta hu lekin jyada der tak nahi
kya aaj ke yug me bhi ek aam insan tapasya se bhagavan se savand kar sakta hai ?

Setu Speaks: 
जी हाँ , आज के युग में भी मातंग भगवान् से मिलते हैं | अगर मातंग मिल सकते हैं तो कोई अन्य भी मिल सकता है |

865. Kya bajrang baan ka path karne se hanuman ji naraj ho jate hai.

Maine kisi blog me padha tha ki bajrang baan ka paath karne se hanuman ji bohot naaraj ho jaate hai.kyu ki bajrang baan me shri raam ji ki shapath di jati hai aur ye unhe pasand nahi hai. Kripaya bataiye ki kya ye sach hai? Kya hame bajrang baan ka paath karna chahiye?
Maine bhi kai baar paath kiya tha par ab nhi karta.

Setu Speaks: 
हनुमान जी तभी नाराज होते हैं जब भक्त के दिलो दिमाग पर असुरों का कब्ज़ा हो और वह असुरों द्वारा पैदा की गई इच्छाओं की पूर्ति के लिए हनुमान जी से प्रार्थना करे | आज के युग में हर कोई असुरों के प्रभाव में है और बजरंग बाण इच्छा पूर्ति के लिए होता है | अतः जब आप बजरंग बाण का पाठ कर रहे होते हैं तो आप एक तरह से असुरों का एजेंट बनकर हनुमान जी से प्रार्थना कर रहे होते हैं | इसलिए पहले हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के अध्याय पढ़कर अपनी आत्मा को शुद्ध करें और तन - मन को असुरों के प्रभाव से मुक्त करें | उसके बाद ही किसी मन्त्र का उच्चारण करें अन्यथा न करें |

866. kya bhagwan hanuman ji hai

Agar hanuman ji hai to pls mujhe btao ki bhagwan sankar ki utpatti aadi sakti se hoya aur aadi sakti ki utppati kaise+hoya pls btaye.

Setu Speaks: 
आत्म स्वरुप,
आपका अगला प्रश्न होगा , आदिशक्ति की उत्पति जिससे हुई , उसकी उत्पति किससे हुई ? आप मानव की भांति मत सोचिये। इस नश्वर संसार में उत्पति और विनाश का चक्र चलता है तो इसका अर्थ यह नहीं है कि इस संसार के बाहर कुछ नहीं है। और अगर कुछ है तो उसकी भी उत्पति या विनाश होता होगा। आदि शक्ति नाम से ही जाहिर है , उनकी न तो उत्पति हुई है और न ही विनाश होगा। वे आदि और अनंत हैं।
मंगल कामनाएं।


867. kya DashrathNandanPramDas (Shri Hnaumanji) ka sannidhya sda ke liye pa jaunga..

Meri Jindgi me kai aose anubhav hue hain jab me sab jaga se hatash hua tab kis divya sahkti ne mujhe rah dikhayi..aur baad me jab shant mans e socha to woh koi aur nhi mere prabhu hanuman ji hi the..woh kuch aisa anubha tha jise me shabdon me nhi bta sakta..lekin kathinaiyon se niklane ke baad aisa lga ki unse niklna asmabhv tha aur ye itna aasani se kaise sambhav ho gya!!!..

Jai Shree Ram..


868. Kya hanuman bhakt non vegetarian ho skte hain??

main hanuman bhagwan ka bhakt hoon. Param bhakt to nhi par main unko manta hoon, mera unme pura vishwaas hai. main non vegetarian hoon. ye btane ki kripa karein k kya ek hanuman bhakt ko non veg khana chahiye??

Setu Speaks: 
भक्ति शरीर से नहीं आत्मा से होती है और आत्मा को कभी भोजन की आवश्यकता नहीं होती | हाँ कई बार शरीर से ऊपर उठकर आत्मा के स्तर पर जीने के लिए शरीर को कुछ नियम पालन करने पड़ते हैं लेकिन अगर आप आत्मा से भक्ति करते हैं तो इस बात से कोई फर्क नहीं पड़ता कि आपका शरीर किन चीजों पर निर्भर है |


869. Kya Hanuman ji ka astitwa unke janm se bhi pahle se tha?

Kya Hanuman ji ka astitwa unke janm se bhi pahle se tha?
jaisa ki apne btaya hai ki hanuman ji bhi kalki ji ke sath the pichale kapl me...to kya unka astitwa tab bhi tha...
aur kya hanumaan ji humse naraj hai?...kya unka sakshat darshan hume milega...

Setu Speaks: 
श्रीमान जी ,

यह पहला कलियुग नहीं है . इससे पहले भी एक कलियुग था | इसके बाद भी कलियुग होगा | यह क्रम में चलता रहता है -- सतयुग , त्रेता , द्वापर , कलियुग -- इन चारों का क्रम लगातार चलता रहता है | यह कलियुग समाप्त होने पर हनुमान जी चले जायेंगे और फिर त्रेता में वापिस लौटेंगे |

हनुमान जी अगर आपसे नाराज है तो वह भी उत्तम है | उनकी नाराजगी भी उन्ही को नसीब होती है जो उनसे जुड़े हुए हों | उनकी नाराजगी आपको कुछ सिखाने के लिए ही है | आपको ब्रह्मज्ञान प्राप्त करना है तो हनुमान जी की सभी लीलाओं से परिचित होना होगा - वे कभी नाराज होंगे तो कभी खुश , कभी ठोकर देंगे तो कभी आपका हाथ थामेंगे | चलते रहिये |

|| राम ||


870. Kya hanuman ji ko dekhna sambhav hai

Kya is kalyug me kisi samanya manushya k liye hanuman ji ko dekh pana sambhav hai.man lijiye koi manushya sapne me hanuman ji ko dekhta hai to iska kya matlab huaa. Is sansar me insan k janam kis udeshya k liye hota hai.bhagwan ka sawaroop kya hai.kya wo aishe hi hai jaise ham photos me dekhte hai.kya koi samanya manushya hanuman ji se sidhe baat kar sakta hai..is kalyug me v kya moksha pana sambhav hai.agar bhagwan hamesha hamare aas pass rahte hai to hame aihsas kyu nahi hota.or v bahut se sawal man me hai .kya in sawalo ka jabab hame mil sakta hai..man me vahut sari uljhane hai..Please halp me...

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्मस्वरुप ,

अगर हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के 6 अध्याय पढने के पश्चात् भी आपके ये सवाल हैं तो आपको मार्ग तथा दृष्टिकोण बदलने की आवश्यकता है | इन 6 अध्यायों से सभी सवालों का समाधान तो नहीं मिलता लेकिन सवालों का स्तर अवश्य ऊपर उठता है | अपने इन सवालों पर पहले स्वयं विचार कीजिये |

|| राम ||


871. Kya hanuman ji ko dekhna sambhav hai

Kya is kalyug me kisi samanya manushya k liye hanuman ji ko dekh pana sambhav hai.man lijiye koi manushya sapne me hanuman ji ko dekhta hai to iska kya matlab huaa. Is sansar me insan k janam kis udeshya k liye hota hai.bhagwan ka sawaroop kya hai.kya wo aishe hi hai jaise ham photos me dekhte hai.kya koi samanya manushya hanuman ji se sidhe baat kar sakta hai..is kalyug me v kya moksha pana sambhav hai.agar bhagwan hamesha hamare aas pass rahte hai to hame aihsas kyu nahi hota.or v bahut se sawal man me hai .kya in sawalo ka jabab hame mil sakta hai..man me vahut sari uljhane hai..Please halp me...

Setu Speaks: 
मातंग भी मनुष्य ही हैं और वे इसी संसार में रहते हैं | यह आपको सोचना चाहिए कि हनुमान जी उन्हें साक्षात् दर्शन क्यों देते हैं , आपको क्यों नहीं ? सोचेंगे तो जवाब भी आपको अपने आप मिल जाएगा |


872. Kya hanumanji ramcharn ka darshan kra skte h.

Khte h hanuman ji kripa se sant tulsidas ji ne ramchritmanas rupe ganga ka avtran saral sabdo m lokhit k liye kiya. kya hunemanji hme v us paramtatva ka darshan kra sakte h

Setu Speaks: 
अवश्य ! श्री हनुमान को गुरु बनाइये | उनकी लीलाओं में ही गहरा ज्ञान छुपा है |


873. kya har kalp me bar bar vahi dashavtar hote h

mai janna chahta hu ki kya har kalp me bar bar vahi dashavtar hote h or kya unke nam bhi same hote h jaise kalki awtar ram avtar or kya sab kuch ek jaisa hota h har kalp me
bhagwan hanuman ne kaha pichli bar unhone surlok ko bante hue dekha
to kya bhagwan hanuman satyug yani surlok ke bante samay upasthit the to phir unka dusra janam treta me dubara kaise hua
tab to 2 hanuman ji ho gaye is yug me

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

कलियुग के सतयुग में परिवर्तन के समय , समय रुक जाता है | वह न कलियुग होता है न सतयुग | सतयुग शुरू होते ही हनुमान जी विष्णुलोक चले गए थे |

||राम||


874. Kya hum b sakshat darshan kar sakte hai prabhu k

Thou i live in a modern culture, but yes most of the times realized that god is there to help us, support us and still with us every time. Is it possible for us to have darshan of Prabhu Hanuman while living the same life. Internally i want to have darshan but not sure is it possible or not. m blessed with every facility required for happy n easy survival but want moksh at last so never return to this earth once left.


875. kya karm kre

11 ke lesson se main ye to smjh gyi ki icha puri tabhi hogi jb hm uske layak karm kre.pr main ache se smujh nhi pa rhi hu.jaise jab matanghanumandal me tha tab tak to uske karm us dukh sukh ki potli k layak hi nhi the.to raste me to usne koi aisa kam bhi nhi kiya ki use dukh de diya jaye or koi aisa bura kam bhi nhi kiya ki sukh spne me diya jaye.so hmare kis trah ke karmo pr depend krta h ye sb.jb hm kisi or ke liye icha kre to kya tab bhi hmare hi krmo pr depend krta h sab kuch.or kya jo dukh uske sath aayengevo bhi usi ko milenge.jaise agar hm chahe ki hm 1 st aaye to hme pdhne ka karm hi krna hoga.agar aisa h to icha ki kya jroorat h .agar pdhenge to bina icha ke hi aajayenge.

Setu Speaks: 
कर्म धर्म के आधार पर करना चाहिए | जब अभिमंन्यु को चक्रव्यूह में घेरा गया था तब अर्जुन वहां पर नहीं थे | अगर अर्जुन को पता होता कि अभिमन्यु के जीवन को खतरा होने वाला है तो क्या अर्जुन वहां से जाते ? दुसरे छोर पर सेना को अर्जुन की आवश्यकता थी | अर्जुन ने अपना धर्म निभाया और सेना की रक्षा हेतु दुसरे छोर पर चले गए | मनुष्य को अपना भाग्य जानने की इच्छा न करके अपने धर्म का पालन करना चाहिए | जिस समय आपका धर्म जो कहता है वो कर्म कीजिये |

|| राम ||


876. Kya mai saare adhyay padh kar sirf ek hi baar arpan kar sakta hu?

maine pehla adhyay padha aur fir 108 ka arpan kiya par doosra adhyay padhne ke baad kisi kaaran mai arpan nahi kar saka ab maine fir doosra account banaya aur fir arpan ke liye payment kiya. kya ye thik tha?
aur kya mai saare adhyay padh kar sirf aakhiri adhyaay me arpan kar sakta hu?

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

अर्पण तब किया जाता है जब आत्मा को परमात्मा का साक्षात्कार हो | वह हर अध्याय पढने के बाद भी हो सकता है अथवा सभी अध्याय पढने के बाद भी न हो | अर्पण फूलो अथवा फलों का करना होता है जो या तो ऑनलाइन साक्षात् हनुमान पूजा में भेजा जा सकता है अथवा आप अपने पास किसी हनुमान मंदिर में कर सकते हैं |

|| राम ||

877. kya mere sath jude logo ko bhi DashrathnanadanParamDas(hanumanji) ka asshirwad milega

Jai Shri Ram!

prabhu ko shat shat naman..jaise ki mera vivah ho gya hai.aur do bacchiyan hain..meri patni aur mera gyan aur samjh ka star alag hai..kya kabhi woh mujhe samjh payegi aur uski aatma jo kleshon me fansi hai ..kabhi Ram rupi ras ka hum dono apne samst parivar sahit milakr aand le payenge..jhan sirf Ram ke dwara prerit karm uska hi fal hota hai aur uski katha..baaki sab nhi..ya fir ye safar akela hi hoga

Ram Ram..

Setu Speaks: 
आपकी पत्नी इस यात्रा में आपकी उत्प्रेरक है | जैसी यात्रा की आप कल्पना कर रहे हैं , वह यात्रा आपको कलियुग के अंत में सुर बना देगी (जैसा कि अध्याय 6 में बताया गया है ). | लेकिन प्रभु इच्छा है कि आप सुर न बनकर , मोक्ष को प्राप्त हों और प्रभु विष्णु के लोक में स्थान प्राप्त करें | मोक्ष में अच्छाई - बुराई , ज्ञान - अज्ञान , धर्म -अधर्म आदि विपरीत कारकों से ऊपर उठना होता है | इस काम में आपकी पत्नी की आत्मा को आपकी सहायता हेतु भेजा गया है | अब आपके घर में विपरीत कारक मौजूद है | आपके घर में मोह भी है और अमोह भी , आपके घर में इच्छा भी है और अनिच्छा भी , आपके घर में उत्तेजना है तो शांति भी .... इस रहस्य को समझिये | फिर आपको लगेगा ही नहीं कि आप इस यात्रा में अकेले है | फिर आपको लगेगा कि आपके आस पास के प्राणी भी इस यात्रा में आपकी किसी न किसी रूप में सहायता कर रहे हैं |

|| राम ||


878. kya sach me devi maa aati hai...

Mera ek anubhav h Jo mai aap sbhi logo ko batana chahti hu ki jb bhi mere maa k ghar me Devi mata ki puja hoti h yaa fir koi puja hoti h to mere sharir me mujhe kuch alag hi anubhav hota h jaise k Jo bhi bolti hu vo mujhe bhi nhi pata lekin mujhe sb yaad rehta h... Ye kya h kya sach me mata aati h mere sharir me kyuki sbhi logo ko dikhaye sbhi ne yahi bataya... He prabhu mujhe krupa karke bataye ye asaliyat me hai kya ... Jb bhi navratri k samay aur ab to kbhi bhi ho jata h ye kya h.... Mujhe is duvidha se paar lagaye prabhu ....
Jai Hanuman...
Jai Shree Raam....

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूपा ,

सामान्यतः इंसान मस्तिष्क अथवा देह के स्तर पर जीवन जीता है | जब देवी माता की पूजा होती है तब आप देह और मस्तिष्क के स्तर से उठकर आत्मा के स्तर पर पहुँच जाती हैं | ऐसा होना भी चाहिए | पूजा के समय अगर कोई आत्मा के स्तर तक नहीं उठता है तो समझो वह मनुष्य माया के जाल में बुरी तरह से जकड़ा हुआ है | कलियुग में अधिकतर लोग माया के जाल में फंसे हुए हैं | वे पूजा के समय भी मस्तिष्क के स्तर पर रहते हैं , आत्मा के स्तर पर नहीं उठ पाते | जब कोई आत्मा के स्तर पर उठ जाता है तब देह खाली हो जाती है | उस देह में या तो कोई सुर , अथवा कोई असुर अथवा कोई देवी-देवता प्रवेश कर जाता है | अगर पूजा सही विधि से की जाए तो सुर तथा असुरो को पूजा मंडल से बाहर रोककर रखा जाता है | उस स्थिति में देह में सिर्फ देवी देवता प्रवेश करते हैं | अतः , अगर पूजा सही विधि से की जा रही हो तो आपकी देह में देवी प्रवेश करती हैं , अन्यथा कोई सुर-असुर भी हो सकता है |

|| राम ||


879. kya suro ya asuro ke pas humse jyada technology h

Continued from #497956
Manniya matang santo ka kahna h ki ve aluen sur ya asur h par jo udte hue viman akash me samay samay par dikhai dete h ve aj manusyo ke pas uplabdh technogy se bahut age hain . Me manniya hanuman ji se yah janna chahta hu ki ye UFO kya h aur yadi ye sur ya asuro ke h to kya usse manushyo kokoi khatra h.

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरूप ,

मस्तिष्क के जाल में मत उलझे रहिये | मस्तिष्क की सीमाओं से परे एक बहित बड़ा विश्व है उसे आत्मा से अनुभव किया जा सकता है , मस्तिष्क से नहीं |

||राम ||

880. Lal chura ka rahasya kya hai?

Hey Hanuman Ji Apko Barambar pranam!
Maine sabhi 12 adhyaay ko padha hai.. aur sabhi adhyaay mujhe samajh me aye hai...bs 7ve adhyaay me mujhe ek baat samaj nhi ayi.
RAM Ji ne kaha ki "Lal Chura logo ko yeh darshayega ki unki vastavikta hi ek matra vastavikta nhi hai". RAM JI ka ye vakya mujhe samajh nhi aya. iska kya matlab hai. Kripaya ise ispashta roop me mujhe samajhaye...

.....................
Kripaya mujhe jaldi uttar bheje.
jitni jaldi ho sake mujhe reply kijiye..

Setu Speaks: 
जब आप श्री हनुमान जी की मूर्ति पर लाल चूरा लगा देंखें तो आपको यह भान होना चाहिए कि जैसे लाल चस्मा लगाए हुए आदमी को सब कुछ लाल दीखता है वैसे ही वानर जाति का इस संसार के प्रति दृष्टि कोण मानवजाति से भिन्न होता है | हर किसी आत्मा की एक अलग वास्तविकता होती है |

||राम||

881. Land of Sri Lanka

Dear Setuu Organisation Members,

My words cannot describe the experience I felt after reading all four chapters that was posted.

I feel you have delivered a great deed in this mortal world by using the material technology as an instrument to enlighten the truth and of God.

After reading the fourth chapter I was able to see the whole picture and difference of the mortal world and of the immortal. I am an ardent devotee of Lord Shiva, Lord Vishnu and Lord Hanuman.

I have observed and admired Lord Hanuman in Ramayanam as the humble devotee. Being such a great Yogi of all time, he is so humble and always thinks that He is no one but a devotee of Lord Rama. Can we human beings gain such humbleness? I am trying to.

I have few questions after reading all chapters. Your Organisation is based in Sri Lanka. Why there was and still so much killings that happened in the land of Sri Lanka in the name of Tamils and Singalese? Why could it not be stopped or a permanent solution gained when such devotion and puja is performed?

I am still not able to understand why there is always disturbance in Sri Lanka (the abode of Lord Hanuman). Why so many innocent people have to die? Please enlighten me on this.

I will continue to share my experiences and post questions. Looking forward to your reply.

Jai Hanuman!

Kanchana

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you think deeply, you will get your answer. Here is the thought process to help you find answer:

When King Sinhbahu came to Sri Lanka and became a king here, Buddha died in India. Was it a co-incidence or larger divine plan? Had Buddha lived for say 50 more years, Sri Lanka would have been a Hindu country like India. Why? Buddha's path was not an easy path while human beings have tendency to go after easy path. It is only after death of Buddha that Buddhism got a shape of a religion as it is today. Otherwise Sri Lankan people would have adopted practices of Hindu religion because of King Sinhbahu. Because Hinduism was much easier than Buddha's path at that time. Then Buddha's path was modified into "Buddhism" and Sri Lanka adopted Budhism. Had that not been the case, people of Sri Lanka would have built hanuman temples at every mile. The Hanuman of Mathangs would have lost because Hanuman of Mathangs suggests a difficult path of "Realization of Ram element in every being or "path of self realization".

We cannot answer your specific question regarding war as that has political annotations. But you can find the answer if you think according to thought pattern given above.

Blessings

|| Ram ||


882. From last 4 months

From last 4 months I am attracted towrds lord hanuman it happened because of one dream.
Everytime I think about lord hanuman I sing song of his glory I chant hanan chalisa and some stanza continue until I sleep pleasse suggest me something.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Our suggestion is that you stop looking for suggestions from outside world. Explore the inner world. Your soul knows everything. All you have to do is remove the veil of ignorance from it. Lord Hanuman's words are the knife which will cut this veil. Any other suggestion taken from outside world may only thicken the veil.

Blessings


883. Layers of illusion???

Sorry for taking your valuable time once again but still i have a some doubt(query)
(1) what is mean by the layers of illusion?? I dont know the actual meaning of layers of illusion.& How i try to remove layers of illusion (plz give me the perfect and right path).
(2) How i know the relationship between me and my lord. As you give me the ex. of water it means you may want to tell me that for relationship with lord i will need some time or there is other meaning (plz explain ) I am totally confused and worry about all this confusion.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The answer for your confusions would be better and long-lasting if you find it yourself. Just think about a mirror which has layers of sand on it and you are trying to get a clearer view of yourself in that mirror. You are not what you think you are. You think that you are a body. No, you are not a body. You are a soul which is inside the body. The illusions of this world make you believe that you are a body.

Blessings


884. Level of a soul

Respected sir,
Jai Shree Ram,
I wanted to ask whether during the course of a day, our soul changes it's level , eg. If theres something one wants to do, which is deemed wrong according to sanskara that one has received, and before he does the said thing, he is even reminded of his sanskara, but he anyways does the thing.. The question is whether he ascended to the level of sanskar prithu(or he had the option to) when the thought came and then descended to nishad level once he didnt listen to his inner voice.
In this way, each day do we ascend and descend to various levels depending on how we choose to act??

Also sir,
As imbibed from the knowledge,everything Im experiencing right now in an illusion, including this universe, lets say all of us have our own universes, when we interact with each other, it connects our illusions/universes too and the illusion only deepens.. So is the 'truth' the only thing that spreads uniformly across all universes(billions of them) and makes them one through the truth/the divine?

This knowledge we receive through Hanuman Ji makes us realise, thats because we can feel it through our aware conscious, what about animals and trees sir?.. Animals and trees must be having their own 'trishanku universe' too but they can't realise..OR their perception is different(as Sun to Monkeys) Does that mean animals have no right to attain Moksha?.. They live at deh nishad , does that mean they can't be elevated?.. OR are plants already evolved enough? Cz plants don't seek pleasure or food, they primarily give.. Pls enlighten sir. Jai Shri Ram

P.s. Seeking blessings from Lord Hanuman, Namaste O:) putting all of my faith in him and believing in the Supreme and the Supreme knowledge as the only truth.. Ram Ram Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If a person is Samskara Prithu in morning and Deha Nishada by evening, he is considered a Deha Nishada for that day. If a person is Deha Nishada for Krishna Paksha of a month and Samskara Prithu for Shukla Paksha of that month, then we will classify him/her as Deha Nishada for that month. In any time period, the lowest category a human being falls to is the category he belongs to for that time period.

If a person chooses to ascend and descend as per convenience, he/she is a Viveka Nishada. Most human beings fall in this category in this time and age. In fact entire course of society is being set today by people who call themselves "Intellectuals". These people are found in TV studios, newsrooms, and entire mainstream media space. They can twist arguments as per their convenience. They are 'Viveka Nishadas'.

When you wrote the line "So is the 'truth' the only thing that spreads uniformly across all universes(billions of them)", you imagined an entity called supreme truth. But that is not truth. That is just another object of illusion. Supreme truth cannot be imagined. Supreme truth doesn't stretch from one point to another. It is just there is. You are astounded by massive size and shape of illusion. You imagine that there are billions of massive universes bound by a single string called truth. When you evolve further, you will realize that one particle of sand also has those 'billions of universes' inside it. You will stop being astounded by the size. Because size is just another illusion. When all these instruments of illusion - size, color, number etc. - cease to astound you, they will drop like superficial layers, and what all will remain would be truth - bare truth.

You are not a human being. You are a soul. There are two things - your soul and outside world. Your body is part of outside world. Imagine a huge bed-sheet on which lot of shapes are printed; shapes of humans, trees, mountains, animals and so on. If you want to touch the bed-sheet, you have to hold it from somewhere. If you hold from an area where human shapes are printed, you identify yourself as human. But actually you are a soul. You can hold the bed-sheet from another place and identify yourself as something else like a tree or animal.

This world is a multidimensional bed-sheet. Your soul has to clutch it from somewhere. If it clutches it in 'human area', it identifies itself as human. There is no 'They'. There is only 'I'. 'I" is the tree, 'I' is the animal. There is nothing but 'I'.

It is good that these questions are arising in your mind. It will be easier for you to absorb what He wants to impart to you in upcoming chapters. Let these questions squirm and shake the ready-made notions in your mind.

Blessings.


885. LIFE

HEY LORD HANUMAN, I HAVE NO IDEA ABOUT MY PREVIOUS LIFE'S, BUT IN THIS LIFE I HAVE SOME PROBLEMS, AM 40 YEARS OLD NOW, BUT STILL LAKE OF EVERYTHING LIKE RELATIONSHIPS, HEALTH AND MONEY, STRUGGLING TO EXIST AS OTHER HUMAN BEINGS IN MY NEAREST COMMUNITY, PLEASE GIVE ME PEACEFUL LIFE IN TERMS OF MONEY, HEALTH AND RELATIONSHIPS AND SPIRITUALITY AND FOR MY FAMILY TO ATTAIN MOKSHA WITH THIS OR NEXT LIFE. THANKS FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY, OM HANUMATHE NAMAH...


886. Life

Jai Shri Ram
With the help of first chapter i recognize that Lord Hanuman is always with us and all this happiness and sorrows are just illusions. we just need to do Bhakti. And for living in this universe we need to follow the rule of SHri Bhagwat Geeta too.


887. LIFE

MY LIFE HAS BEEN A SERIES OF UPS AND DOWNS LIKE A ROLLER COASTER RIDE-IN SHORT IT HAS BEEN FILLED WITH PRIMARILY LONG PERIODS OF MENTAL ILLNESS, AGONY,FEAR,DOUBTS, SUSPICION,INSECURITY AND A BELIEF THAT PAST KARMAS R AFFECTING ME IN THIS LIFE AND AM BOUND TO SUFFER MY WHOLE LIFE AND MAYBE BAD KARMAS IN CURRENT LIFE WHICH MAY HAVE OCCURRED KNOWINGLY/UNKNOWINGLY AND EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN GOD LOVING AND AND BELIEF IN HIM HAS BEEN STRONG -MY AGONY ESPECIALLY MENTAL AGONY CONTINUES PLEASE RELEASE ME FROM THIS MENTAL AGONY AND MAKE MY LIFE MEANINGFUL AND PURPOSEFUL AND I HAVE BEEN SEARCH OF A LIFE PARTNER BUT ALL MY EFFORTS BEEN FUTILE-I REALLY WANT TO KNOW WHETHER I WILL EVER GET A LIFE PARTNER AND WILL I HAVE A PEACEFUL FAMILY LIFE WITH FINANCIAL STABILITY, PROSPERITY AND SUCCESS.

thanx and regards
akshay kotian

Setu Speaks: 
Take care of these 4 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear" and "worry" etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.


888. life after death

I have seen God in my own eye.God is present every where.I want to know that after our death what will happen.I want to dedicate my life.but who I am?.where I came from.why I forgot my last born.how I can remember these days.


889. Life and death

1. The concept of 'everything is an illusion' is not new to us. Its the same moral in Bagvadgita more or less. So my doubt is if we want to treat everything as illusion then we have no life (as per our current understanding of life that we need to get educated, get a job, get married, have kids family and die). The feeling for others, feeling sad for people around who are suffering from different problems, shouldn't we feel for them? If all that is illusion, basically we are denying our own existence by questioning our emotions. Aren't we? Then what do we treat as actual life?

2. I lost my dad 21 months back. He was 50-51 years old. I still feel sad for him. I was not by his side during his last few days. I never cared whether God existed, so I did not pray for him when he fell ill. This makes me feel bad every time I think of my dad, and my family. I even cry today randomly. He never did any bad to anyone. Everyone who know him loves him. But why did he have to suffer? I know I did a lot of mistakes (non-veg, alcohol, girls, which is not allowed in my traditional home) in life and so I deserve to be punished and I am ready whatever happens to me. But the question that haunts me, Is my family/dad punished because of my karma? Do son's bad deeds hurt the father/family? Is there a way to know about my father's soul whereabouts? I feel like I owe him a lot. I owe him my entire life.

Please answer these two questions, in detail.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

(1) It depends who "you" are? Are you a "body", "mind" and "intellect"? Or are you something higher than that? When you are indulged in this world, you are a human being which has a "body" which feels, "mind" which thinks and "intellect" which judges. But when you are not indulged in this world, you are a soul. You can switch from "Body, mind, intellect" to "soul" through silence or through curiosity. See, when you typed this question, you were thinking beyond "body.mind,intellect". You were watching yourself. The curiosity crawled you through intellect to something higher. May be you remained in that situation for a second and then came back to your body senses. There are no readymade answers for these questions. Answer can just help you to rise above body. Answer resides in brain. If you want to experience something beyond your body and brain, then you cannot stick to an answer. You can only experience that yourself.

(2) The soul of your father has taken birth again. But you cannot call her your father now. That soul has taken many births before also. And it will take few births more. Your father is with you in the form of memories. He is nowhere else. Your Karma did not affect him. It was his own destiny. You should also not hold on to your past. Nothing was in your control. Everything was destined to happen the way it happened. Your soul is still pure. Just ponder over the question "Who I am". You will realize that you are a pure soul.

Blessings


890. Life and Studies :)

Dear Hanuman Ji,
Il be happy If you can read this Swami ... I visit your shrine at Brickfields Veera Hanuman temple, Your energy is so lively there, The sense of power and bhakti cannot be described in words. Im in deep confusion on my future the career path that i must take, i wish to be a Doctor ... Where should i pursue my studies Swami, Will i be one? How do i sit and concentrate Efficiently in my A levels . Hanuman ji Guide me and help me search for my answers please and Thank you ... <3 Jai Hanuman!


891. LIFE CYCLE

LORD CREATED And born as soul bearing body.. this life it is totally horrible as so far experienced only worst. even the family is not correct totally duped still getting cursed and all otherside surroundings openly said and declared I am no way connected to the present family. I am sure what are all happened through anf by my spouse in the name of simple word of gratitude. even my parental status also rejected and that is the mind because that mind was wrongly influenced by greedy and ungreatful personalities. . even in career not rewarded suitably bur ignored due to envying personalities. there are many good ideas are flashing by god;s grace, but as of now is not of any use, even believing and praying the supreme and blessed gods and devas never helped. many times requesting to take me from this life. no good this happened to say some satisfaction. nobody understood me thogh they are well aware m I correct it affects my thinking of BHAKTHI IN ANY FORM please explain what is hapeenin g and what is additional miskae I got since scolding heavily on the people responsible drohm done to me. why not god spoke tome even sincerely requested.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

God listens only when you rise to the level of soul. You are so sensitive to the things and situations around you that you are stuck at the level of body and mind. You are not body. You are not mind. You are a soul. Realize that with the help of Lord Hanuman's Leelas being posted here. Only your soul's relationship with the supreme soul (God) is real. Everything else is just an illusion.

Blessings


892. Life is an illusion

According to the chapters that i have gone through , life mere seems to be series of illusions . Living in this bubbly world it becomes very difficult to keep a right pace between reality and vision or illusion . Please! Help us by enlightening on this issue a little more so that we can strike the right code between reality and distractions of the world. Life has become a web from where it looks like impossible to do away with day to day chaos and distractions as currently we are living in a machine world which has made us lazy and as and when we are supposed to do something physically, devils like anger , jealousy etc. seem to possess us. Please help!!


893. Life is pain

Continued from 32531...

there is so much we rely on this materialistic world... i have already started detaching myself from all my loved ones and what i use to be earlier now i am not even closer to that... i have always got betrayed by my friends, relatives and other people whom i tend to help... my life has thought me this lesson of not trusting anyone except yourself and God lives in you... you trust yourself and one trust God as well...

i want to prove the world that i am not dumb or not a stupid whose living in vain or in pain... I believe that Lord Hanuman is always watching over us and trying to show us the right path... there is fear in the heart of something which even i m not able to find out... there is a small child inside my heart who is crying and want to be just what it is but the world doesnt want me to be humble and caring... we are beliveing what we see the illusion of the world but we are not able to break the same... i have a lot to speak my heart but i dont know what to do and whom shall i take it out... i know only one thing people here will take undue advantage of everything you have and anything you share with them...

i am very much lonely and need guidance from Lord Hanuman and Lord Shiva...

please i want to be their where there is no such people and i can do wat is required of me...

i am not able to express my feelings at all to you Lord Hanuman but i know u know everything...

Jai Shri Ram...

Jai Balaji ki...


894. Life's Illusions_Jai Hanuman Dada

When reading chapter 1, many feelings were encountered by me including confusion, fear, and enlightenment! It brought a new way of looking at life in my mind. I too believe that this life is one big illusion and many times I also feel that there is another parallel illusion all of us humans live in. The trees, the structure of houses and cars, etc..., the air we breathe, and the people we see along with the feelings we feel are all one great illusion that we all must come to realize in order to reach Moksha! Much of the chapter discussed the mere truth of my belief system that I hold within myself. I want to ask Hanuman Dada to provide my family and friends peach and happiness always! May everyone near and dear to me attain happiness and peace in every aspect of their lives always! Hanuman Dada is almighty! Jai Hanuman!


895. light and confused

I do feel a bit lighter but i am full of doubts i don't know how to explain. if the asuras are absorbing all the pain, then aren't they doing good? have the asuras taken control of us in this yuga? Who creates desires? Desire seems to be the core of existence. Why are we not aware of all this? Why is the knowledge kept away from us?There doesn't seem an answer for the ultimate why. I am full of doubts and questions.Also, I have surrendered myself completely. Therefore whatever happens to me is not in my hands. That's my belief. So, i must have love for god, bhakti, all the time. Hanumane, bless me. Guide my soul. All this knowledge should digest well in me. Pranams. Namaskar. Om namah shivaya. Sriram jairam jai jai ram. Sri anjaneyaya namah. Pranams to Setu masters and Mathangs.

Now i am at peace. feel calm.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When the Asurrahs are trapped in Asurloka i.e. a layer above earth's surface, then they are absorbing earth's pain. When they are free to move on earth, they cause pain which we see all around.

Getting supreme knowledge is a journey. A Guru knows when to raise questions and doubts in disciple's mind and when to settle them.Move the way Guru takes you,

Blessings


896. The Linga

I had a few questions after reading the first 13 chapters of Mathang logs.
1. Is the astral body or, energy body, used by the soul to travel to dream plane or, other planes of existence similar to the Linga? How other these different energy bodies related?
2. What are the means to modify the Linga of the self? One might me through the thought and will. Are there any other ways to do this?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When Linga gets tweaked in a certain fashion, the soul travels to another world. The soul doesn't require any vehicle to travel.

The science of Linga is extremely complicated in nature. We are still researching on the documents we have in our possessions which are related to the science of Linga. Only in that science there are methods of Linga tweaking.

Blessings


897. Linga Sastra.

While reading through the 13 th Chapter I experianced unknown Ananda and Blessings of Hanuman and Lord Venkateswara on me.

898. Linga Shastra

Jai Sri Ram!

Lord Sri Hanumaan ji has mentioned about Linga Shastra in chapter 13.
I searched for the same on the internet but could not get any details.

Please share the details from where I can get the same.

Jai Sri Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Linga Shastra is a very advanced science. Manuscripts of this science are not available anywhere. We have some document related to that in our possession and we are trying to decipher them. But we are not sure if Lord Hanuman will give permission to publish these documents or not.

Blessings


899. link of supplementary chapters

Gurudev ko pranam
Gratitude setuu

Respected authority
I really want to read the ssupplementary or other scrolls chapters or piece of iinformation which are not given in holy chapters .
Kindly provide the link or send through email.

Thanks
Soul
Dinu

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

There is no other supplementary article required to be read by devotees except the one titled "Rare description of 9 Forms of Devi Durga by Lord Krishna" link of which is provided in chapter 10.

Blessings


900. Little Confusion Related to "Puja Process"

Respected Soul,

I have some confusion about Shri Hanuman Ji “Puja Vidhi Process”.

As per Setuu website Mathang use mantra (Posted in Website) to calling hanuman ji.

But my soul is thinking that this knowledge give to Mathang by hanuman ji for their worship or calling.

Is it right if we use same mantra for calling hanuman ji ?

And in second hand In Hindu religion (Very old religion) process of worship or calling is totally different.

Many very lucky soul have got hanuman ji darshan from Hindu religion.

Which (from both Mathang Style and Hindu religion Style) is right for worship and Dharshan of Hanuman Ji?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

We have published only 3 lines of Mantra with permission of Lord Hanuman. After that we didn't get the permission probably because people were misusing the Mantra. We will release it fully if and when we get His permission. Most probably the devotees who sincerely read the chapters will be eligible for the Mantra. We suppose we won't get permission to publish it for public in general.

Hinduism consists of Guru Traditions. Mathangs is one of the Guru traditions, the difference is that here Guru is Lord Hanuman Himself. Most of the Guru Paramparas have been lost. If your family has its Guru Parampara intact, you should follow your Guru Parampara.

Blessings


901. loans bothering me

Loans from banks is bothering me.my 50% of earnings is going to loans requsting a remedy for this
My upsana of soorya should become more stonger and intense so that i get to connect to soorya alwaya

902. Lonelyness

I am very much alone in this world although i have a family of one kid. I am always want to connect with hanuman ji but worldly thinghs always distract my spiritual life. I want to always connect with Hanuman Ji but not succedded. There were so much negativity in my thoughts and i want to remove the same urgently. After connecting with Hanuman ji charan vandana some of things removed but still so much negativity is there in my tgoughts. Please help me to concentere in spiritual things, please help me to remove worldly bad things from my thoughts. I want sanyas but my life prohibits to take the action. Please help

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Become a spectator or observer of your own being.

For example, suppose you are angry at something. Immediately go to "backseat" of your body and observe what is happening. If even after going to backseat, your anger continues then that means the anger is not being expressed by you. Instead an Asurrah has entered in your body and expressing that anger. You do not have to own that. You do not have to feel bad about it. Your body is not your own. If an Asurrah or Surrah is using this to do evil or good things, you have not control. The most you can do is to not own whatever is done by Surrahs and Asurrahs.

If you are bound onto your family, fulfill your responsibilities. Make it your Sadhana. One of the Yoga is to do exactly opposite to desires. If you do not desire to be in a family and still you are being forced by destiny to be bound to it, take it as a Yoga.

Blessings


903. Lord Hanman's Blessings needed

Our couple and son needs Lord Hanuman's blessings for peace of mind, hormony , success, happyness, financial status for helping others those in need, best permance of our son in his education & later in his job and best good life all through his life.

After reading 2chapters of Lord Hanuman's arrival experiences, lot of positive change is observed in our son's behaviour. A big tesion of his admission to higher education is solved just like that. Our minds are at peace just because of Lord Laxmi Nrusimha swamy & Lord Hanumanji.
ThanQ very much Setuu for connecting us to Hanumanji.

904. Lord hanuman

I earlier visited the page when charan puja were to be performed, and that time i could not pay for fruits basket, but this time i did so, it realy feel nice to be attached with divine god Hanuman ji.May he blessed us all people in the world. jai bajarang bali.

Setu Speaks: 
Blessings, Kunal.


905. LORD HANUMAN

You are the creator,protector of this world. You are the ultimate devotee of Lord Vishnu. You are the avatar of Shiva. You are past,present and future. Both seas within you rest. You the ultimate and total truth.You are the karta as well as the karm. You are the goal and you are the means. Souls come out of you and then goes back to you. You are the universe. You are the willpower of man. You dwell in all good acts of human. You are the dignity of women. You are the intelligence of the intelligent. You are valour of the brave. You are the good deeds of a bhakt. You are the soul of the body. You are the philosophy of Upanishad. You are the rythms of Vedas. You are the Science of mind. You are the love of the devotee. You are the care of my mother. You are the LORD OF MY SOUL.

You are all knowledgeable and I don't have to tell you or ask from you something. But I do ask for peace of world, for dignity and honour of women and gentlemen,for smile of innocent children,for health of old and diseased,for love of mother,for affection of family and friends,for your blessings.

Keep us all under your protection,in your shadows of blessings.

Keep this world a beautiful and humanitarian place.

JAI SIYA RAM
JAI BAJRANG BALI
JAI BHOLENATH, JAI MAA PARVATI
JAI MAA,JAI MAA,JAI MAA
JAI NARAYAN,JAI NARAYAN,JAI NARAYAN
JAI SAIRAM,JAIJAISAIRAM,JAIJAI SAIRAM
JAI BHOLENATH JAI MAA PARVATI


906. Lord Hanuman

Continued from #492478

Sir,

As previously told why there is this much sufferings in this world and in my life. In this Kaliyuga it has been said whatever the karma which we accumulate should be suffered or enjoyed in this life itself. In my childhood my father left us and my mother and my mother has to go through lots of sufferings to raise us. I had a love marriage which my mother accepted and my marriage has been done on the HOLY HILLS of TIRUMALA. My marriage has been destroyed when the girls parents took her away within 8 months of the marriage. Later my mother who was the centre of the universe for us has also been taken away from us where she has been brutally murdered. My brother and my mother secretary planned to take whatever property which i got and they brought many pains to me. My mother started a bank and had been handed to the RBI and in this i had to go to jail when i have nothing to do and only thing that i was her son and that too when i was young and studying and later doing a job after my mother expired.

Why all these sufferings since childhood and what have i done to accumulate all the KARMA in this kaliyuga and since my childhood. I have many questions to ask to GOD and also wanted to ask why he has taken away my mother from me. I dont need any sympathy from anyone and even all this i want to serve the Holy GOD and i wanted to serve the needy and the poor as much i can. I am not rich but pray the god to make me rich not for me to enjoy but whenever i see someone i want to help them but no much finance. Please GOD answer all my questions and my prayers.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If your mind has calmed in last few months, read the reply of previous experience and meditate on it. It is not necessary that Karmas of this birth should give you result in this birth only. Karma is related to soul and your soul doesn't have a short life like human body. A soul lives in the mortal world until its Karma account is fully settled. It is for the God to decide whether He wants to help others through you. Pray for Moksha, then all your Karmas will settle one by one.

Blessings


907. Lord Hanuman

Oh my god within this two days i have experienced alot then any other thing in my life..
By reading this 6 chapters in two days in my busy schedule i have learned alot about my Lord Hanuman and while reading this my mind soul everything except my body was fully involved in it and i was feeling different very light and peaceful....Truely waiting for further chapters and hope that in my life i could get the chance to attain the "CHARAN POOJA" held after every 41 years or i would wish to see the place where Mathangs live on top of piduru mountains in srilanka..

908. Lord Hanuman

I have dreamt Lord Hanuman many times guiding me.

Not sure of the connection but anytime I need his guidance, I feel very close to him.

909. Lord Hanuman advises bhagvad sanidhya

Once when I was angry and hateful inside for some issue, in dreamtime I read and felt lord hanuman advising me bhagvad sanidhya for 3 days, once I woke up, I thought I can read bhagvad gita, that is the best way for bhagvad sanidhya for me


910. Lord Hanuman and Lord Sri Rama Saved my Daughter Life

My Daughter is a pre-term baby who was born with the weight of only 800 grams . Before she came into this world doctors said that there are very little chances of surviving but she was in hospital for 2 months and recovered very well . Now she has turned 2 years and very intelligent .

I strongly believe that it is because of lord Rama and lord Hanuman we and our daughter are in good position .

911. Lord Hanuman and my dad's devotion

My dad is a devotee of Lord Hanuman. He goes to hanuman temple every saturday for last 25 years, once he met with an accident on friday night (Diwali) next day he went to Hanuman temple as usual with fractured leg. His devotion gave results to all of us.

----
Prayer added : My husband is out of job for almost 3 years. I just want Hanuman ji's blessings so that my husband would get a good job in his own field and me, my son and my husband would be together. Please bless me and my family.

Setu Speaks: 
--- conveyed to the Lord ---


912. Lord hanuman blesding..

Thank you setuu hanuman becouse of u iam vry lucky to know more about lord hanuman and to know about the existence and truth behind it.i realy want to surrender myself to God but i dnt to knw there are some obstacles which distracts me.i want to increase my bhakti my devotion to lord.i want lord hanumans blessing to destroy my negative vibes,sins,thoughts.i cant able to move on from my past so many times i have tried but i cant able to forget.i know to attain moksha we wil have to get ridoff past, sins everything..plz bless me...


913. The lord hanuman create positive way of my life

Hum hnuman ji se prathna karte h hme jo kam krodh moh lobh or vishay vashnao ki janjiro ne jakda h unse hme mukt kre. jivan m brhmachrya ka samawese kre.Gyaniyo m sreshtha atulit bal k dham hanuman ji se prathana karte hme satya margh ki ore rah dikhaye.


914. Lord hanuman cure my health problem

Dear matedang,i am facing stomach problem(loose stool)from last 4years as well as swapandosh and mentally uncomfortable last 4 Years .so lord hanuman please remove my all deasease and pain.there is no hope except you lord hanuman.jai shree ram


915.  LOrd Hanuman did not fulfill my prayer

I have been trying to sell my property for the past over 2 years but couldn't. As advised by someone, I chanted the Manthra-'AUM HUM HANUMATE NAMAHA' 108 times twice daily for more than 41 days. The person had assured me that within 41days the property would be sold out but in vain. Can you please help me in this regard. Also I have been suffering from various health complications and tried all sorts of treatments but no use. Is there any remedy?
I shall be much grateful to Lord Hanuman and yourself if I you can solve my above crysis.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Your prayer is wrong. Change your prayer to, "O Lord please fulfill my needs so that my mind and heart does not get distracted in worldly problems. Please fulfill my needs so that I can dedicate my thoughts towards the higher aim of Moksha."

Blessings


916. Lord Hanuman during Ram Navami

Preparation was going on very fast and rushing on the day back in my home. I've already put all my deco and before I transfer the statue to some other place I ve told him that I gonna put you beside Ram now. After I transfer Ram statue, I tool pancha mukha hanuman statue and put beside him and the next when I about to lift viswasanthi hanuman statue, it's not coming up and that create a hell of question to me .I've asked everyone in my house even outsiders to lift it but three statue don't seems to be lift from pooja alter..Once the pooja done the next day when I lift it and it's out...I have more idea on this since I thought it could be air pressure and I already put up water down on statue to lift it and it's not coming up as well..


917. Lord Hanuman g my protector

I have felt him so close to me. When i remember some incidents that happened to me few years back..my eyes always fills with tears of gratitude towards him, that how he protected & showered his blessings over me. Like any other impure n evil soul was I. But still he the innocent n eternal purest of the pure God Shri Hanuman g developed the strong bond with me because i was ignorant of his blessings n his power & he was the only who gave indications of his being with me. I was possessed by some evil powers since my childhood days, of which me n my family were totally unaware and when the time came as they call it the transition of evil stars in my horoscope i.e was the Markesh period of three years n the chances were so firm of the death. But my brother, my Guru, my Mother Shri Hanuman g were there for me...he gave his glimpse in my dreams many times before i got caught into the trap of evil powers n so called tantriks n all sort of evil people. How I developed faith in Shri Hanuman g the story is here :-
It was the year 2006 when i were at home (after finishing my engineering) because my mother had the operation, so i was with her to take care. As we lives in the village of Himachal Pradesh, and we all know that there are many things to do at home inspite of cooking i.e looking after cattle n fields etc.. So in the Jan 2006 she got operated and in Feb 2006 the reconstruction work of the temple started, which were at the out skirts of our village in the Jungle. And we all family members were very excited of this whole ritual of 7 days, as this was the temple of our clan God i.e our Kuldevta.. Kartikeshwer. With his idol there were also situated the idols of Tara Mata(Our Kuldevi)& Kali Mata, also two another Gram devta (lordsof that particular village) and also Shri Hanuman G. So it started and we all were in extreme sacred and religious atmosphere. There were also Gaytri anushthan And Ramayan Paath with the construction work of the temple. We used to go there every early morning to serve people who were there to do all sort of work regarding construction and ritual. like this I with my whole family developed faith in Hanuman g..as every day in the evening chanting of 1008 Ram Naam Mala & Bhajans were done by all devotees & by Pandit g and guru g ( people associated with Ramayan n Hanuman Bhakti). Many were their who were in some or another way were attached with Hanuman g. some were Shri Hanuman Bhakts n some were possessed with Shri Hanumang G's special blessings. Because of these only people we were devoted to him.
From that period of time i got into depth of devotion for him. I used to chant Hanuman chalisa Whole day..n regularly had dream of Shri Hanuman g, specially on Tuesdays. One day i had a dream that me n my father are standing facing north direction n there were junlge full of big trees, n specially of Kachnar, those were blossomed with beautiful pink n white petals of kachnar. & above the Branches in the top there were sitting a cute small monkey, which later on transformed into a giant one..n it turned towards us n threw some kachnar petals on me n my papa. so cool n calm were the fragrance n even in the dream i felt the touch of swift wind flowing from him to us..n i spread my hands saying "..Give me Hanuman g, give me more of your blessings..". When i woke up i were extremely happy. There is one more dream that I happened to had before this i.e in my college days.. as there were my exams.. n in the night i slept bit early in order to get up early in the morning. And before sleeping just for an instance I saw Hanuman G's calender in front of me and prayed hurriedly to him to wake me up early so that i can do a final revision. And early in the morning had a dream that i am lying on the floor and an extremly giant monkey entered the room, n i was bit scared..he approached me n slapped my back gently. After that i slept for some more time till my parents woke me up, & I was really really amazed and extremely happy that how a super power Lord Hanuman G came to woke me up who is just a small useless creature on this earth..i just prayed ignorantly, but he bothered my prayer..it just filled my eyes with tears. So like this I developed faith in him. But the worst was on the way to come. I had to leave my job because i was not feeling well, i had some awkward dreams of evil possessed people, some witchcraft people i.e Tantriks etc..even i used to have some lucid dreaming of a person capturing me and like that. Slowly i went into traumas of sort of fits, and used to sleep whole day, either used to cry on my pathetic condition. I used to pray daily for 1 hour almost when i was fine, but then something started stopping me to enter my Pooja room, i felt every time nauseating sort of feeling, either extreme pain in my stomach. Like this 3 days passed that I din't did my pooja. But i took pledge that no matter if I die like this but will be in his sacred feet. Everyone tried best on his part to cure me, n then i ended up being a prey into the hands of cunning Tantrik, he tried his best to capture me in order to fulfill his some sort of wrong intentions. But i used recited Hanuman chalisa daily, thats why he was unable to do so. At last he pressurized me to leave the puja of shri Hanuman g as I am a girl and people say that women does not pray Shri Hanuman G. But I was adamant that i am not going to leave him at all, what ever you may give logic. Only when he himself stops me from doing his puja only then i will stop. Many people protested against my puja of Hanuman G. Then one day i had a dream again..that iam falling into a deep deep large hole in the earth. And suddenly I called for Hanuman g, one hand came and pulled me up. And then suddenly me and my papa staretd flying high upon the places of thousands of evil gods, and then finally there came a place of Shri Hanuman G, lords of 52 veer, Mahaveer there we came down and landed in front of his idol. This was an indication from Bhagwan g to be away from that Tantrik. But destiny was very harsh upon me to take my test. Finally That Tantrik called me to Bhadrakali Tample and did some puja upon me which took me almost near to the death. He did something really bad to me in that temple, but was later bitten by something on his bald head, so badly that immediately he had to rush to the hospital. And my condition was worsening day by day..and the rage of fits increased and one day i was almost finished, in my papa's lap. The force of that evil power was so extreme that my limbs went turned up badly in opposite directions, my mouth went deformed, and eyes were turned up and i stopped breathing. Every one at home started crying, my mother, sister, my aunt n my little brother too. They did some small ritual in order to take some safety measure and they succeeded, and at last i was again taking deep breaths. Like this it went up to 3 years, my family, neighbors and relatives were very sad because of that horrifying conditions of me. My father, mother and sister were all in depression, as they could not imagine me dying daily like this i was turned into small filthy ugly creature. My condition was worst and pathetic. People has stopped talking to me n my family when at last one of my relative who is Hanuman Bhakt came to my papa to cure me as he had been ordered by Shri Hanuman G to cure me. My father was obliged. And then the procedure started. Shri Hanuman G gave him instructions step by step he did the same. It took him one whole year to free me from Evil powers, and some spirits who were with me. Horrifying was that time, when i used to see these evil things in semi conscious state or in dreams they were all cruel and harsh on me, many times i got scratch marks on my back and arms, and after few minutes they vanished by themselves. I used to weep on my pathetic condition whole night for almost a year. But later i realized that these are my past life karmas that i am suffering like this. I used to have beautiful n healthy face, n once was a bubbly girl, who have emotional heart n was loved by almost everyone in family. But now i turned into a alive corpse, who was physically and mentally destroyed by some hidden force.I had to face such a fate...But i was rigid in thoughts that what may ever happen to me whether i die or survive iam surrendered to Shri Hanuman g. Even i tie Rakhi upon his idol since then and he was there, and will be always for me. He is my mother who nurtured me in my tough times,He is my brother who is protective for me, n my Guru who is leading my path to a good destination. I used to sleep all alone talking to his pictures, i was sad, depressed and was defeated, but in my heart i was sure that he is with me, and this thought helped me to not to give up. otherwise i may have committed a suicide. Many times he gave me immense happiness by coming in my dreams in the form of his idols and his followers and gave me strength. One more relation I am having with him, that i treat & talk to him like a kid at times. this all took long period of time since 2006 up to 2011 i had these ups and down in my life. Now I am all gud doing Job. I am happy and contented. And really feel glad to direct people towards his devotion. As he is the only protector in this Kalyug. I daily read one page of Ramchrit Manas as i know where there is chanting of Lord Rama's name there is the presence of Shri Hanuman G. I am in all tears while writing this. Can't describe my emotions for Shri Hanuman G. Just be with me bhagwan as i am not capable of taking your name or being an ideal Hanuman Bhakt but just a needy, pathetic creature who is living on your mercy. I know i have written a crap.. but it will be valuable, only because this is my feeling and a story where Shri Hanuman G is related, so it has become really really important. Will be glad if this feeling of mine gets little space in your site. Thank You for letting me know about Matangs and Hanuman G's visit to them, and every thing in this site which is related to my Shri Bhagwan. "..Jai Shri Ram, Jai Hanuman..."


918. LORD HANUMAN A GREAT PROTECTOR

I am devotee of Lord Hanuman since my early childhood. My mother was his great devotee. When she used to worship him, I always stood behind her and watched her activities very closely. I became staunch devotee of Lord Hanuman.I am now 59 Yrs. old and I have crossed all hurdles and odds by grace of my Ishtdev & Guru-Lord Hanuman. He appears in my dream too with her blessing posture.


919. Lord Hanuman- The Omnipresent

Ever since childhood, I was a ardent devotee of Lord Hanuman. I come from a religious and devoted Hindu family from Tamil Nadu, India. I was brought up in all parts of South India.During my upbringing, I was always facinated by lord Hanuman's Power and Strength, yet his gentle nature. It was my regular routine in childhood, that I had to visit Hanuman temple near to my house in Mangalore on every Saturdays and recite Hanuman Chalisa.
Which I have memorised as a child, which upto this day I remember.
As time pass away, and I grew into this chaotic world, I got carried away by the materialistic things which makes us forget the simple routines as visiting temples and chanting prayers. Chasing after money and not focusing on the divine. Life can get out of hand. On such note, right now My family is in huge financial turmoil, due to various chain of misfortunes.
But I was lucky enough to obtain a college admission for Master in Design in Transportation and Automobile Design @ NID* after a long struggle, for which I thank the lord.
I am writing this because in the recent months/years I haven't prayed to lord Hanuman nor have chanted Hanuman chalisa... nor Prayed at all for that matter. All of a sudden I get to see this post on Facebook today about lord Hanuman, which made me read this first chapter. i was shocked , I sense this is a divine intervention because I am due on my fees to my college, which my family is been struggling to cope up with.I want to know why and where did I loose my faith or got carried away that my family is under the brink of extinction financially. My family is separated in terms we live in different parts of India, as whole we meet once in a year or so.

I think this is one of lord Hanuman's way of rescuing the impure mortal beings from the debauchery of this evil society and progress them in to the light of enlightenment.I know Faith and Hope is the only things which we mortal beings can resort to in times of turmoil.
I wrote this because I felt like writing. I appreciate the work done by Setuu.
Jai Hanuman, Jai Hanuman, Jai hanuman.


920. Lord Hanuman placed his hand on my head

I am an avid believer of Hanuman Ji. I would like to narrate here a dream that I experienced. I had a dream that lord hanuman is standing in front of me and I knelt at his feet to take his blessings. Lord hanuman too blessed me by keeping his hand on my head. When I got up from the dream, I saw my hairs have been undone (I am a Sikh and bind my hair in a bun). I am really blessed to have received lord hanuman's blessings in swapnalok. Jai Bajrang Bali.


921. lord Hanuman please forgive me

O Lord Hunuman please forgive me of my sins I have done till date.I have hurt many people.I am feeling very guilty.I am ready to accept any punishment if you give me.I Promise you that I will try to become a good human being from now.


922. Lord Hanuman please forgive what so ever mistake i have done

God Hanuman,My name is Mohammed Shanawaz.I am a big devotee of you.God always my thoughts go in a wrong way.Kindly remove the thoughts in my soul and purify me.
God our family was having lot of problems since i am not employed till now.We are middle class family and my age is 30 years no job till now to survive.
Kindly remove my problems and help me in achieving my goal.
God my mother is effected with somany problems in her body.Kindly bless her and remove her long waiting problems.
God please make my parents to enjoy whatever they they wish to be.I want to make there dream comes true.
Lord hanuman,Kindly remove my struggles and make my parents to having good health and wealth.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Lord Hanuman wants you to be strong and have full faith in Him.

(1) Go, face the world with all your might and strength.
(2) If because of weak communication between your soul and the Lord, you take a wrong step, Lord will put obstacles on that path.
(3) If you see an obstacle, do not assume that the obstacle is put by Lord Hanuman. Do not stop there. Use all your might and strength to proceed. But keep your inner eyes open. If that path is not meant for you, He will give you a signal of another path.

When you become strong, other things will fall in place automatically. Do not forget, your hands are hands of the Lord. He will change your life by using your own physical presence.

Blessings

923. Lord Hanuman please give all the time darshan sparsan sambhashan bhagya of you

Lord Hanuman please give all the time darshan sparshan and sambhashan bhagya and guide me all the time in all the lifes. I heard moksha is ultimate. I do not know what it means and how it looks like. I am your child lead my life by carrying my hand. I am bit perplexed about my life many times I wonder why i am facing challenges with marital life and professional life other aspects of life and also not able to serve my parents, sister and make them happy and my wife also same time. I love sanathana dharma and india and would like to serve people. My wife like usa better. I feel my daughter has better life of fulfilment with all relatives and temples, culture and all. I am in big karmic link and maya. bhagawan sathya sai and sri sri ravishankar guruji , appaji guided and guiding me. You 108 hanuman chalisas helped me to sail through tough times. I feel sometimes out of place with java programming job i am doing being mechanical, industrial engineering background. Please bless me and my family memeber and all the living beings. Samastha sukhino bhavantu Anyadha saranam nasti twameva saranam mama. Please forgive all mistakes i did. Please be with me all the time so that i do not make any mistakes in present, future. I do not know purpose of my life. what for i came where from i came where i am going. when i read about krishna or rama, siva, lalitha, laxmi, vishnu , you i want to read all those stotras. but time constraints not allowing to lead complete spiritual and service oriented fulfilling life. jai hanuman. sri ramadutha hanuman

Setu Speaks: 
--- included in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja ---

924. lord hanuman visit

Jai Shri RAM
I am 17 years old and i have started loving and praying lord hanuman for about 2 years from now but i have many miracles happening in my life my mother once asked a pandit about me he told that this boy has special blessings of lord hanuman some of my experience.were like that every human has seen monkeys but usually monkeys are in group but i used see single monkey sitting alone with no one around him i used to get very suprised and that monkey used to sit near my house and aomrtime came to my schools roof also i knew that this monkey is none other than lord hanuman and i have decided that when i'll become doctor i will go live in ayodhya and help all the people in ayodhya and when i will die my last words will be JAI SHRI RAM


925. Lord hanuman's appearance

Once we had visited our aunt's house at bangalore for a function. Myself and my father were asked to sleep in a room for the night. This was the room of one of the family member's of that house who had committed suicide.That night I had a suffocated feeling of something heavy pressing my heart and in my dream i started uttering the mrithyunjaya mantram.. All of a sudden I could see a monkey's figure in the form of a saint with rudrakshas garland , and immediately that feeling of suffocation and heaviness of pressing vanished and I got a good sleep. Few days after that, I had visited a Balaji temple at Hydrabd, where I found the picture / photo of that monkey figure, as appeared in my dream. I was late told that ,it was the picture of lord Hanuman as witnesse by a photgrapher in Himalayas.... I can never forget this experience

My query :

I seek Lord Hanuman's blessigns and continued guidance from him for all the acitvities in life as well as in the path towards moksha

936. Lord Hanumans grace

Please enlighten me as to how can one receive the grace of Lord Hanuman during troubled times in our life?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

When troubled times come, the devils like fear, anger etc capture human mind. Just do not let these devils sit in your mind. Your mind is like your house. You should not let these devils become guest in your house. These devils are always standing at the door of mind. Let them stay there. Do not let them in. Believe in Lord Hanuman and wait for His arrival.

Blessings

937. Lord Hanuman's Guidance.

I have resigned from my present job on 17th Aug.'15 before 12months of retirement. I will be relieved by 16th Nov.'15 or earlier as Management decides. I seek guidance of my Lord and Guru well- Hanumanji as what business or work I should do after my relieve from present job.

Lord please guide me....

Yours servant,

KASHI NATH RAI

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

your soul is here to settle your Karma accounts of your past births. Every decision of yours either frees you a little or burdens you further. You are in the playground of this world. You have to make every decision on your own. You cannot expect Lord Hanuman to play on your behalf. Yes, he shows the signs. But you have to understand those signs yourself.

Blessings

938. lord kalki

Jai shree Ram
Jai hanuman
Lord hanuman bless us all. It is said by you that what you desire would b fulfill at the time you deserve or become eligible for it..else it wud b fulfill in swapnaloka. And I desire to b lord kalki myself and to wash away all evil from this maanavlok. Plz lord hanuman just guide me and be my mentor or train me. In the history there always has been mentor without which nothing was possible. I too wished that I had a mentor like Krishna, lord parshuram , lord hanuman but why is it that am not having them with me as mentor. I want to contribute to society n destroy evil.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The answer is hidden in your question itself. If you deserve to be part of the force which is going to destroy the evil, you will get to know your role and the path.

Blessings

939. lord kalki

Jai shree Ram
Jai hanuman
Lord hanuman bless us all. It is said by you that what you desire would b fulfill at the time you deserve or become eligible for it..else it wud b fulfill in swapnaloka. And I desire to b lord kalki myself and to wash away all evil from this maanavlok. Plz lord hanuman just guide me and be my mentor or train me. In the history there always has been mentor without which nothing was possible. I too wished that I had a mentor like Krishna, lord parshuram , lord hanuman but why is it that am not having them with me as mentor. I want to contribute to society n destroy evil.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The answer is hidden in your question itself. If you deserve to be part of the force which is going to destroy the evil, you will get to know your role and the path.

Blessings

930. Lord Maruthi came to my thought today morning...

I thought of Lord Hanuman and his mantras today morning. And juz all of a sudden, on my way to work I get to know n read this special website. This is a Miracle and a msg to me that u are with ur devotees. Thank u dear lord for listening to us. May ur blessings be for All including our animal friends/pet.

931. Lord Ram and Lord Hanuman in Dream

On 28th may 2017, early in the morning, I got a dream, in which I saw a Lord ( may be lord Ram) in dream, I don't know who the lord is, he was accompanied by many and a person carrying umbrella above his head. They all were walking, then I saw a humble monkey man ( may be lord Hanuman) who was directing me or recommending me to the lord , to allow me to join that group. Then, lord with his left hand, gave a gesture to join the group and I started walking eagerly behind the lord. I could see lord only from behind, i could not see his face.
After waking up, i felt that the situation in the dream was similar to the one, when Lord Ram along with Lord Lakshman, Lord Hanuma and with army of monkey men , going to lanka to bring back Matha Sita, by defeating Ravana.
I was very happy that i could see Lord Ram and Hanuma in the dream ( though i could not see from front) and the best part is,I have been permitted to join the army of Lord Ram. Lord Ram and Lord Hanuma cobsidered me eligible as a soldier in their divine army.
Thank God, thanks for your blessings.
I will give my best in my work and follow dharma. Please strengthen me to reach your expectations.

932. Lord Satisfying my wish

As i am willing and fond of knowing in other words to see the ramayana with my own eyes, Through this chapter My lord hanuman shows one (Key) part of the Ramayana with his narration.
I am very happy and feeling blessed by lord hanuman. Thankful to those people who is trying to translate Lord's narration.
I am awaiting to see my lord with my own eyes, wish i could be blessed with my lord/ My guru LORD HANUMAR.
JAI SRI RAM.

933. Lord Shiva's waking up.

Om Namah Shivaya!
On top of every chapter, it is mentioned that lord Shiva has woken up from meditation and special pooja is being offered.
I have been a staunch devotee of Lord Shiva since 5 years now praying to him regularly (usually reciting 108 names and lingashtakam).
Is there any ritual I should perform or any mantra I should recite? I want to offer Him my prayers!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Mantras cannot be given without giving the meaning otherwise they can have an adverse effect. Giving meaning is not an easy task because giving meaning means imparting supreme knowledge. We are releasing chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas and whatever Mantras can be understood with the help of those chapters, we are releasing those Mantras. Until now we have released 2 lines, rest will be released at right time.

Blessings

934. Lord Shri Swami Samarth and Lord Hanuman

Thank you for answering last question. I would like to have more insight into what is parallel universe which was mentioned in an answer to my last query. What is the significance of it?

Also, our Vedas said that we can take seven births as human, is it true? How one could realize which birth he is going through, last/second last..etc

I am very small devotee of Lord Shri Swami Samarth. They are my spiritual guru since 4 years. They are reincarnation of Lord Dattatrey, after taking two reincarnations of Lord Shripad Shrivallabh and Lord Nrusinha Saraswati, they came to earth as Lord Shri Swami Samarth. Since Lord Dattatrey is combined form of Lord Bramha, Vishnu, and Mahesh and since Lord Hanuman used to pray all three, my question is, Did Lord Hanuman met Lord Shri Swami Samarth ever in Kaliyuga or before than this? What conversation they had if met?

When Gods meet, in which language they speak to each other, is it Sanskrit?

Jai Hanuman
Shri Ram Jai Ram Jai Jai Ram.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You need to evolve spiritually in order to absorb the idea of parallel universe. Can you perceive that there is a person identical to you who always remains near you. For example when you are walking, that identical person is also walking just a few feet away. You cannot see that person and he cannot see you because you two are in two different and parallel universes.

It may be difficult for you to grasp the reality of parallel universe if you are not evolved spiritually. Therefore we suggest you to think a lot (if you are a spiritual seeker) and do not believe in anything for sometime. Unlearn everything which has been taught to you by this society. This society is nothing but a factory which is producing robots as per its set formula. You have to question everything and unlearn everything you have learned so far. Then you will acquire a "subjective" (and not "objective") approach and your inward journey shall start.

We won't comment anything on the "7 births" theory. Please quote the original text of Veda you are talking about. Then only we can ask Lord Hanuman about it in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja. For other factual things, you have to wait for the upcoming chapters. We will not apply our mind to generate or validate facts. We shall rely on what Lord Hanuman has said.

Yes, Lord Hanuman must have met Swami Samarth. We are uncovering the treasure of conversations. There are thousands of chapters. In last 6 months, we could decipher only 3 chapters. We hope Setuu Masters get more power of wisdom from Lord Hanuman so that they can decipher these chapters fast and in some of the chapters you may find the conversation with Swami Samarth. It all depends on Lord Hanuman. Probably speed of Setuu Masters is slow because right Time has not come to decipher all the chapters yet. At right Time, you shall hear what you need to know!

Yes, in this particular universe from where you are writing your query and from which we are replying your query, we hear Gods speaking in Sanskrit. That does not mean that Gods speak in Sanskrit. Note the point- "We (or the evolved souls who can see Gods) hear Gods speaking in Sanskrit".

Blessings

935. Lord Sri Vishnu's Kalki awatar

Jai sri Ram Setu masters.
Each and every chapter gives divine experience. It clears so many doubts. We know how our Ved and Purans have been interpolated. The original pieces have been lost. We are fortunate to learn from these enlightened people, probably the biggest devotees of lord Sri Hanuman on earth. Please keep the good work going.

I have a query. Has lord Kalki already taken birth in shayambala. When will he reveal himself? Has Kaliyug already ended and we are in transition period or will it end soon, or we are moving into the 10000 years of golden age within Kaliyug that was supposed to begin after 5000 years of Kaliyug have passed as told by Sri Krishna in the brahma vaivrat purana.

Please excuse my spelling.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

As per the hints we have right now from Lord Hanuman, Kalki avatar hasn't taken place anywhere yet. Birth of Lord Kalki will be a grand affair and everyone will get to know when it happens. May be many blessed souls will be a part of the grand affair.

Blessings

936. Lord Vishnu in form of varah.....

Brighu sage wanted to know why lord vishnu didn't send back the souls to muktisagar... so while Brighu sage wanted to experiment on the souls liberated from muktisagara ..why lord Vishnu gave themselves in the form of varah. What is the difference between souls from muktisagar and from part of lord Vishnu..

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Any soul which helps in welfare of the world is called part of Lord Vishnu because Lord Vishnu's role is as the one who does welfare of the mortal worlds. The soul of Varaha helped in creation of Linga Shastra which proved very helpful for the world. Therefore Varaha is Lord Vishnu's part.

Blessings

937. Lord,kindly guide

Dear Lord..
Please accept my loving God and grateful pranams at Your Lotus Feet. I am feeling good blessed to be included by You in Hanumandal.
My dear Lord, world is becoming a tougher place to survive. it is definitely because of my attachments and foolishness. The only thing I want to do is to focus on the Lord and I'm not able to do it. Lord, You know everything about this lifetime. I'm feeling tired of being a part of this unending bonds and desires. Swami, You know everything about this lifetime. I'm feeling tired now. Please help me to understand what our Lord wants to use me to do and His guidelines for it. Me being so small and stupid I may miss the point. Lord,please let me know what is the one thing that I can do to make this wored a better place, tht would make the Lord happy and grant moksha. Please don't bring me back to this world or any other Swami. And please let it happen at the earliest. I am tired and eager to leave.
Loving and grateful pranams at Your sacred Feet
Sairam.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

To get Moksha, you must realize the supreme truth. What you call as 'world' is not real. It is just an illusion created by Space-Time. You have to realize that it is an illusion. Then only you will realize that you are a soul who seeks the supreme soul and ultimately Moksha. Read Leelas of Lord Hanuman to get the supreme knowledge which will lead you to supreme Lord and ultimately get you Moksha.

Blessings

938. Lord's guidance required

Namaste,

I want to settle my business.

After one not-so-good attempt in running my business. I'm planning to do another business. But I'm facing a lot of concerns from my family so much so that I've started doubting my abilities. I worry that I'll lose their money again. (In my earlier post also I've shared my concern, and I was told to believe in my intuition. So, I did and decided on starting a new thing and shut the previous business. But doubts come and worry me). I feel dejected and useless. Life has always been a struggle. Things don't come easy to me. In fact, I feel what I desire never comes to me. But that's ok because I've lot things in life to cherish as well. For that, I feel immensely grateful and blessed.

I seek Lord Hanuman's guidance & blessings!

Please convey this to Lord and reply soon.

P.s: I've shared a related query in another post also (Experience 517594). But I'm still waiting for the response. I wonder if my queries are sincere enough and trust me, I read at least one chapter before I post.

Ram

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Mistakes happen when mind overpowers the soul. You must realize that you have two aspects of what you call as "I"- (1) Body-mind (2) Soul

A soul should be silent witness of what the body-mind are doing. That way the soul remains connected to higher power (Lord Hanuman and other Gods).

When your mind doubts something like , "Is this right? Will Lord Hanuman get angry at me if I do this? What if I fail?"

The soul should silently witness your mind doing this. Your soul should not try to go along with your mind. Find your inner peace which doesn't get disturbed no matter what happens to body-mind. Find that corner inside you which doesn't get affected by worldly outcomes.

Mind has many rooms. Don't choose one of those rooms and label them as "Inner silence'. Inner silence is beyond mind.

Also, find meaning of true love. Love your family, but don't get attached. Thoughts like "I have done nothing for my family yet, I am useless" etc. are signs of attachment. Attachment leads to mistakes. When these kinds of thoughts come, silently witness them from your soul.

Blessings

939. lost feeling

I do pooja everyday with flowers. I place a few flowers on various deities before I begin. I have a pair of tiny trishool received from kedar which I worship. A woman while cleaning must have picked up one of the trishools and thrown out along with the flowers, I think unknowingly. Any way, there is only one now. i am feeling uneasy. I used to feel that it was a gift from shiva and parvati. My husband said that I am being a bit silly as it is only a symbol of my reverence which is in my heart. I am feeling sad. But your 10th chapter came. I read it. hanumane, bless me with good thoughts and make me strong for everything good leading me to moksha.Bless my husband and children and my home. Be with me always for protection. namaskar. Pranams to the Mathangs and the Setuu masters. Jai sriram. Jai hanuman.

940. A lost soul

Namaskar,
This is my first post, i've read chapter 1 and there are so many things i am interested in knowing . currently i'm going through a phase where i've somewhat given up the hope of acheiving anything in life. I am not feeling motivated for anything .I don't even have a job and it's going to be 2 years since i've left college. I am preparing for govt jobs but no luck has been showered on me as such , my lifestyle has gone from bad to worst and hence affecting my health. I was a happy girl in college and ever since the graduation is completed i am feeling as if i'm not moving with the pace i should be moving in life. I don't like going out and having fun , it feels like a different person and somewhat insecure (the boring version of me) and i'm not happy at all. After reading this i am not going to say that i feel great or anything .To be honest i got to know where my problems lie i.e i have stopped believing in anything and probably that's why nothing is moving forward in my life except time.I got to know where i am lacking and hopefully i will get enlightened during this journey. I am looking forward to know the complexities of life and their solutions as told by lord hanuman himself. may lord bestow his grace on all of you.
jai hanuman

941. Love

Why is that while i have almost got my life partner i miss her out though i had done no wrong or no mistake? Why is that it happens consistently? When am i going to find my perfect life partner whom i have always dreamt about

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

To live life, we need to define some principles and beliefs for ourselves. Suppose you define "I should get in life what I want at any point of time." Ok, there is nothing wrong with this belief. If you want to live life with this belief, fine. But you should accept all the positives and negatives of this belief. If things doesn't work as per your plan, you have to accept the pain also. Because this is part and parcel of the belief you have defined for yourself to live life.

Now suppose you define this belief for yourself, "Ok, I will accept life as it comes." This belief also has its own positives and negatives. Positive is that, when something doesn't work out in your favor you will accept it easily. You will not feel any pain in accepting. But negatives of this belief is that you might not work to the full of your potential. You may deserve more and settle for less because of this belief that "accept life as it comes."

Define rules, principles and beliefs of your life and live life according to those definitions. You must accept positives as well as negatives of your belief system.

Jai Shri Ram. Jai Anjaneya.
Blessings

942. love

Muje apna love chahiye. Or bhagwan muje uske liye ek achchi job chahiye. Or hanuman baba ji ka ek bar darshan karna chahta hu unse kuch bat karna chahta hu please.

943. Love and Attachment

Jai Bajrangbali
Jai Shree Ram

My sincere pranam to Setuu Masters and Mathangs.

I have gone through each and every chapter, article and experience posted on your website. I have read at many places especially in chapter-3 that there should be love in a relationship but not attachment. Where there is attachment, Lord Hanuman doesn't come there. For achieving Moksha, one should not have any attachment. We can't have sakshat darshan of Lord Hanuman if we are attached to someone/something. For getting sakshat darshan of Lord Hanuman, we should not have any attachment.

Could you please tell me the difference between love and attachment? As far as I think, love and attachment both are same more or less. Where there is love, there automatically comes attachment. This is my thinking. But according to you both are different.

So, I request you to tell me in detail the difference between love and attachment so that I give up my all attachment and get sakshat darshan of Lord Hanuman. I really want to see Lord Hanuman with my naked eye before I take my last breath.

I don't know how much time will it take to purify my soul. I don't know the level of impurities in me. I just read every chapter with devotion and wait for the next chapter anxiously thinking one day I will be pure enough to meet Lord Hanuman.

Hanumanji, please forgive me if I have done anything wrong in my life. Please bless me bhagwan.

Thank you Setuu
Thank you Mathangs
Regards

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Love is about giving and only giving.

Attachment is about giving as well as expecting.

Suppose you saw a parrot in a garden and fell in love with that parrot.

If it is true love: you will go to the garden everyday to see that parrot and offer food etc to it.

If it is attachment: you will expect the parrot to be with you all the time so you will catch it and lock it up in a cage.

Blessings

944. Love and devotion between lord Ram and His devotee Lord Hanuman

Many years ago i had seen a dream in which Lord Ram was fighting with Ravan. Fight was on its extreme end but Lord Ram was facing difficulty to defeat Ravan as he was in the Sky by using his evil powers and Maryada Purshotam Shri Ram was on earth and he can't fly in human body. That time Shri Hanuman ji take Lord Ram on his soldier and supporting him in fighting with Ravan and finally Lord Ram win the war. When Lord Ram was fighting in the air on the soldier of Shri Hanuman ji then many times bajarang bali seprate him from him in air to save him from Ravan's attach and then catch again in the air and fight was continue.

When he catch him back the just grab him as he is cathching any soft flower or a prince who is very soft (Though a strong prince was fighting with one of the big evil).

That shows the love of him towards Lord Shri Ram. I really like the way of bhakti that Lord Hanuman have for Lord Ram. I wish i could have a .1% of it towards my lord Hanuman.

BUT ONE THING I WAS NOT ABLE TO UNDERSTAND. DURING THE FIGHT LORD HANUMAN FACE WAS BALCK. AND HE WAS LOOKING AS VERY ANGRY. WHEREAS I ALWAYS THOUGHT DURING ANGER LORD HANUMAN GETS RED.
THAT WAS REALLY SCARY.

945. Love and life

DEAR LORD, DEAR HANUMAN JI, YOU ARE THE SUPREME POWER AND KNOW EVERYTHING.
LORD HANUMAN JI, there was a dog to whom we fed everyday, he was very dear to us, he used to sit near our house, he was very friendly, we all had great affection to him, whenever we went outside, he used to play with us, he used to go to market with us and comes back with us, but LORD HANUMAN JI he got shock yesterday and he passed away, as he was very dear to us we are feeling sad, but LORD, I am in cofusion that he was dog and DEAR GOD YOU take care of all the creatures, he did not know that he would get shock but MY LORD YOU KNOW EVERYTHING, you could have easily saved him, please HANUMAN JI tell, is he happy now wherever he is? Where is he? I pray for his happiness. MY LORD HANUMAN JI, is he happy?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The role of that soul in your life was to bring you closer to yourself- To soak you in abundance of love and help you experience Oneness. That role is now over. That soul is now on its next task.

Blessings

946. Love & Gratitude to you

Dear Members of Setuu.org,

My deepest and humble love & gratitude for the efforts you are taking to share the secret knowledge and leelas of Lord Hanuman with the world.
I have been a Hanuman Bhakt since my childhood and i always have this inner will of meeting lord Hanuman in person.

I wish to seek your help in how do i achieve Lord Hanuman's sakshat darshan.

Is it only after i have received the 36 mantras that i will be able to have Lord's darshan.

Please help and guide me in this regards.
Also i want to know the physical form of Lord Hanuman. Is it the same as shown to us in photos or is it something completely different.

Love & Gratitude,
Ananda

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The main thing is to rise above body-mind and realize the soul. That can be done by reading chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas. Then only Mantras will work. That is why we are releasing lines of Mantras along with the chapters which enshrine the meaning of those lines.

If His image is taken somehow, it will be dynamic. Suppose Mathang A and Mathang B created His image based on their vision. Lord Hanuman would see that both have made two very different pictures. But Mathang A and B will find their pictures same. It is an illusion about which you will read in upcoming chapters.

Blessings

947. LOVE N HAPPINESS N GOOD HEALTH

NAMASTE AT THE LOTUS FEET OF DEAR HANUMAN JI :)

I AM VERY HAPPY OT READ THE FIRST CHAPTER.

I AM VERY GRATEFUL AND THANKFUL FOR EVERYTHING IN MY LIFE. I THANK HANUMAN JI FOR THE ALL THE EXPERIENCES INN MY LIFE.

I PRAY TO HANUMAN JI TO GIVE ME STRENGTH OF MIND, BODY AND SOUL TO BE ABLE TO PERFORM MY DUTIES IN THIS LIFE TOWARDS MYSELF, MY MOTHER, FATHER, AJJA ANS ALL THOSE TOWARDS WHOM I M DESTINED TO.

OH HANUMAN JI ACCEPT MY HUMBLE PRAYER.

PLEASE BLESS ME WITH PEACE.

I SEEK MOKSHA IN THIS LIFE OH DEAR HANUMAN JI.

PLEASE HELP ME.

THANK YOU OH DEAR HANUMAN JI :)

PROSTRATIONS AT YOUR LOTUS FEET OH DEAR HANUMAN JI :)

948. Love you Lord Hanumaanji

I was not getting job. I had gone financially weak.i registered for charan pooja. My prayers were heard. I got job and started working again.Lord hanumaan blessed me.I bow down to the greatest yogi god , shiva- avatar in gratitude.My lord hanumaanji please always bless my family and me.We are blessed to be your devotee.Sri Hanumate Namah.Jai Hanumaanji ki:)

949. maa Ganga son bhishm

Correct me if i am wrong....
My question is ..
if Bhishm pitamah is Son of Maa Gange ; and Maa Ganga can write off the bad karmas and Assurah to the shivloka then why not Maa Gange helped his Son in Mahabharata when Bhishm was unknowingly act as a puppet for Shukracharya...?
In previous chapter Shri Hanuman Himself said that Bhishm too was under the influence of Assurah...
.
This question araised in me from the first day the 12th chapter published but i was hesitating..whether i had a right question..!
.
Thank you
I Wish i can get an answer

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

you have a thoughtful mind. You can get this answer yourself. Just to help you, here is a hint :

The 8 Vasus had committed a sin. To wash off that grave sin, they were advised to come as close to Goddess Ganga as a son is to a mother. The 7 Vasus accomplished this task successfully and hence got their sin washed but 8th Vasu (Bhishma) could not come close to Goddess Ganga. There was a barrier between him and Goddess Ganga and that barrier was king Shantanu. Bhishma could not wash off his sins because of that. Goddess Ganga wanted to wash him off but Shantanu stopped it from happening. Later, Bhishma took a "Pratigya" for his father and that Pratigya led him in the trap of Asurrahs.

Blessings

950. Maa narmada or maa ganga k bich kya connection he.?

Jai shri ram..
Me bharat k ek chhote se nagar me rehta hu jo maa naramada k kinare bsa hua he.. ye bahut hi sundar he or iske ghat b bahut sundar he.. iska nam maheshwar he yha pr sahstraarjun ka mandir he jo ki naramada kinare hi he...mene bachapan se suna he maa narmada shiv ji ke pasine (sweating) se bani he.. or jab hmare yha ek bar pravachan me naagar ji aae the tab unhone kha tha ki maa narmada kalyug ki ganga he.. kya maa naramada or maa ganga me koi connection he..
Mere sapno me bahut bar pani dekha he nadiyo ke roop me.. bahut bar shiv ling ko bhi dekha.. iska kya arth he..
Or jesa ki mene ek bar likha tha ki swapn me hanuman ji ne darshan diye lekin manushya roop me... uska apka uttar mujhe mila uske bad ek bar fir se unhone darshan diye or is bar mene unhe vanar roop me hi dekha tha.. unhono kha ki mujhe har paristithi me shri ram ka jap krna chahiye..

Setu Speaks: 
देवी नर्मदा की आत्मा भी अति पवित्र आत्मा है लेकिन देवी नर्मदा केवल मान्व्लोक में हैं , व्याहृति तथा पाताल में नहीं |

सपनों के अर्थ निकालने की बजाये अगर आप अनुभव के अतिरेक में मग्न होंगे तो आपको फायदा होगा | अर्थ मन लगाना चाहता है किन्तु आपको मन से ऊपर उठाना है |

951. maanav lok past is present to paatal lok.

If our(manav lok) past is present to paatal lok, nala surveying sea is our present but yet that time drashta (seer) enquiring lord Rama soul. Abducting lord Rama soul is our future, but pathal lok seer was done that at nala surveying the sea. Paatal lok sent enforcement in that night and ridge was formed, Then only sethu bridge was constructed. So paatal lok enquiring lord Rama soul is present to pathal lok but that's not past to manav lok while nala constructing sethubridge, that is present to maanav lok. Then how it is possible our past is present to paatal lok... If it is true the enforcement sent by paatal lok, which was formed as ridge is present in the sea in a single night when manav lok in present. It would be happen after vaanara sena crossed the sea. Then only manav lok past is present to paatal lok. The ridge was formed in present situation of manav lok, but paatal lok enforcement sent after enquired abducted lord Rama soul. I didn't understand this. Please clarify me lord....

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

This is illusion of Time. If you can recognize this illusion, you will become very close to Lord Hanuman, But it is not easy to recognize it, Efforts have to be made by you only. Read the chapter and think deep. Everything is explained in chapter 9. Not even a single more word is required to understand this mystery. What is required is that you should abandon the human perspective and acquire some more perspectives.

A devotee had similar doubt. He spoke with the Setuu Masters and see how he realized it. This conversation may help you :

Devotee :  I been reading each and every chapter constantly, i have one big question
after reading chapter 9 , please try to get me the answer. As per the chapter9, stone stayed firmed on water because there was one long layer created, but this layer was created when God Ram & God Lakshman's soul was kidnapped during the War in Lanka, then Drashta created this layer by modifying the past so the question is , how did God Ram and Laxman reached for the first time in Lanka as they were already in war, then past was modified , I hope you got my question? Please answer this one, i am keen to understand this.

 

Setuu Masters : Divine Soul,

We are the upperworld for Paatal, so we see their future. And Paatal is lower world for Bhuloka, so they see our past.

Suppose that you have a machine through which you can see Paatal. Imagine that you are on the beach when Nala has gone to survey the sea. What would you see in Paatal? You will see that Lord Ram and Laxman's souls are there and Drashta is interrogating them.

Now suppose that you are in Paatal and you have a machine through which you can see Bhuloka. Imagine that you are in the hall where drashta is interrogating souls of Lord Ram and Laxman. If you see Bhuloka from there through your machine, what will you see? You will see that Nala is surveying the sea.

Problem with your analysis is that you are choosing a observation point which is neither in Paatal nor in Bhuloka. You are choosing a third world from where you see both Paatal and Bhuloka side by side. If you want to do that, you should first know what is the relationship of that third world with Paatal and Bhuloka. Then you need to factor in that relationship in your analysis.

Blessings

Devotee : Still one doubt , i can see from bholok the future where bhagwan ram getting interoggated and due to that a long stripe was build upon whom rocks were standing but that is future , what i understood is future at patal ishappening in current of bholok ,how that is possible?? Or i again missed some point.

 

Setuu Masters : Divine Soul,

Take out a paper and draw three points on it : Paatal, Bhulok and Observation point. To keep things simple, bring your observation point either to Paatal or Bhulok. This is about relativity : If you change your observation point, observation will change. Hence you cannot move observation point at your convenience, otherwise you will get absurd observations.

Write down your every thought and identify the observation point of that thought. You will find out the error in your observations.

Remember, you are not a fixed object when you are doing a thought experiment. In thought experiment, your mind is free to go anywhere. Keep a check on where your mind is situated while making an observation.

Blessings

Devotee : Super awesome concept, this means it was leela of Bhagwan vishu, sukhracharya felt he was creating conspiracy to kidnap rama, infact it was leela of god which was in other word helping him in creating bridge ... My God :) Regards


952. Maarg Darshan

Jai Bajrangbali....aapke charno mey koti-koti pranam.... Maine apne purva janmo ke karmo ke kaaran bahut kuch apni zindagi mey dekha hai.....aapki kripa se mujhey iss kaliyug mey ek aise Guru miley jinhone mera maarg darshan kiya...mai uss raastey par poori tarah se chalna chahti hu...lekin kai baar mere mann mey apney prati avishvaas sa ho jaata hai....mai purna roop se ishwar ke charno mey leen hona chaahti hoon...lekin ghar ki responsibilities ko poora karte hue....ye kaisey sambhav ho paayega.. .kripya maarg darshan karey prabhu....JAI SRI RAM.

953. mai kaise samjhu ki mai atma se halka mahsus kar rha hu

Continued from #507646
mai ye kaise samjhu ki mujhe atma se halka mahasus ho rha hai?
mujhe samaj nhi ata hai ki mai atma se halka mahsus kar rha hu ya nahi.
aur agar aisa nahi hota aur arpan ka samay khatma ho jaane par doosara account bna kar arpan kr sakta hu?
please mere in dono prashno ka uttar jaldi dijiye!
ye bohot hi jaroori hai?

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

ब्रह्मज्ञान के प्रकाश में आपको शुरू शुरू में हल्का भय भी महसूस हो सकता है | यह सब हनुमान जी की लीलाएं हैं आपको मोक्ष की तरफ अग्रसर करने की | अगर आप कुछ ऐसा महसूस करें जिसको बयान करना संभव न हो तो वह ब्रह्मज्ञान की अनुभूति है |

अर्पण अगर ऑनलाइन न कर सकें तो किसी भी मंदिर में अथवा घर पर भी अर्पण करके एक तरफ रख सकते हैं और समय मिलने पर उस अर्पण को वानरों अथवा मंदिर में भेंट कर सकते हैं |

|| राम ||

954. Mai Path Brasht hoon

Ram Ram G,
Meri is deh ki umar 31 varsh ho chuki hai, mere sath bachpan se hi kuch rahashya jude hue hain, un me se mai kuch ka vyakahan kar raha hoon,
1.b mai class 3rd me tha to mai apne mata pita ke sath madhya pradesh me Mahiyar Mata ke darshan karne gaye the jab hum log sidhiyon par chad rahe the to mai apne mata pita se bahut aage nikal gaya tha, tabhi aachanak mai behosh ho gaya or mai upar aasman ki taraf udne laga mai saaf saaf dekh raha tha ki mere mata pita tha or sabhi bagat log mere sahrir ke pas khare the, tabhi meri nazar ek pade bar baithe langur par padi, jase hi meri najar us langur ki nazron se mili mai ek dum apne sharir me aa gaya, aaj tak mai us ghatna ko yaad kar ke sochta hoon ye kya hua tha............
2.Abhi kuch 2 ya 3 saal pahile mai raat ke samay apne ghar se 5 ya 6 kilometer door tha wahan par maine sharab or bhang ka nasha kar liya, kuch samay baad mujhe kuch hosh nahi raha mai ek sunsan jagah par bike se gir gaya, mujhe itna yaad hai ki koi do log they jo mujhe dikhai to nahi de rahe the par unki aawaz mujhe sunai de rahi thi vo log kaha rahe the ki is ko sahi salamat is ke ghar pahuchana hoga, fir mujhe nahi malum ki mai apne ghar bike se ghar kaise pahuncha, jab mujhe thoda hosh aaya to mai apne room me tha, is rahashay ko bhi mai aaj tak nahi samajh paya hoon.....
3.ek din shyam ke samay mai duty se ghar ja raha tha, rastey me Guru Dware ke pas ek car ne mujhe piche se takar mari to mai jaise hi girne laga kisi chij ne mujhe sahara diya or meri bike sidhi ho gayi.....
4.ek bar mai apne dada g ke sath unki mritu hone se ek din pahle apne gaoon ja raha tha to mai ek recovery truck ko over take kar raha tha aachanak samne se ek bas aa gayi mujhe pata hi nahi laga kab mai us truck or uske piche tunge hue truck ke bich me kaise mai car se ghusa or kaise nikla .......

Mai gyan dharam ki batoon me bahut vishwas karta hoon lekin mai bhatak kar vyasno ki or mud jata hoon mujhe pata hai ki inka parinam galat hoga fir bhi pata nahi mujhe kya ho jata hai...
Mai bhagwan se parrthna karta rahata hoon ki he bhagwan mai kyon is duniya me aaya mere jevan ka udeshya kya hai mai kya karoon kuch samajh me nahi aata..

Aap logon se bhi meri yahi prarathna hai ki mujhe koi rasta sujhaye mai kya karoon jis se mera jevan safal ho jaye.

Setu Speaks: 
एक 'मैं' जो व्यसनों की और जाता है और एक 'मैं' परमात्मा की ओर | क्या ये दोनों "मैं" एक ही हैं या अलग अलग | इस सवाल का पीछा कीजिये रास्ता मिल जाएगा |

||राम||

955. main ki sudh

maine abhi tak pura 1 se 13 adhyaye padha hai,mujhe inmie bahaut rahasya mile bahaut si sachaiyan mile mujhe bahaut kuch sikhne ko bhi mila maine apne jeewan mie bahaut kuch badlao bhi laye,
jaisa k matang pramukh rishi aur hanuman ji ne bataya k kis tarah se aap krodh lobh irshya kamukhta k karib jaa kar aap asuron k adhin hote ho aur devon se dur hote jaate ho, to maine apne jeewan mie waisay kai sudhar laye maine krodh irshya lobh tyaga mera jeewan bahaut hi saral aur acha bhi hua maine khud ko ek sadkarm marg par laya hanuman ji ne bhi meri bahaut madat ki mai bahut si pareshaniyon se jujhraha tha mai apna sahi marg bhool kar dusre maarg par nikal gaya, kai thokar lage mai ye bhool gaya tha k maine apne jeewan ka kya lakshya banaya tha aur kisi aur lakshya ki ore badhne laga tha hanumanji ne aur kai devon ne meri sahayta ki mai satkarm ka marg bhol gaya tha, mai apni maa ki khusiyon k liye kuch karna chahta tha par kisi k liye maa se hi jhooth bolne laga tha aur maa ko dukhi karne laga tha bus ek bari thokar ne meri aankhen khol di aaj mai phir se apne raste wapas aagaya thori kathinai hui aap jab zindagi k raaston mie bhatak jao to aap piche mur kar wapis nahi laut sakte par agar aapko gyan ho jaye to dusre raaston se wapis usi raste par aa sakte ho thora rasta kathin ar lamba ho jata hai par jab aa jao to phir aap itminan ho jate ho waisa hi kuch mere saath bhi hua mai sat karm k raste aagaya, par ab bhi santust nahi hoon, maine jo pichli galtiyan ki thi uski saja mili aur abbhi mai saja mie hi hoon yaa phir kahen k ek thokar ne mujhe yaad dilaya k mujhe kya karna tha aur mai kya kar raha hoon, mai pehle maa se galat kaam karne k liye jhooth bolta tha tab bojh sa nahi lagta tha par abhi unse jhooth bolta hoon bus fark itna hai k pahle mai kisi aur k liye jhooth bolta tha par aaj mai apni maa k liye jhooth bolta hoon aur sab kuch thik karna chahhta hoon, mai apni maa ko dugkhi aur pareshan nai kar sakta isi liye shayad se jhooth bol raha hoon,
maine apne jeewan mie setu k jariye bahaut kuch sikha aur badlao laye, par ab mujhe aisa lag raha hai jaisay mai kisi tarah k ghamand k dayare mie aa raha hoon, jab se maine 13th adhya padha main mai ki sudh samjha bhi aur samajh bhi nahi paa raha hoon, ye main kya hai, pehle main kuch karta tha to ek sukhad anand sa mehsos karta tha lagta tha jaisay dusron ki atma ko tript kiya aur mujhe bhi tripti mil gai, par ab aisa kyu nai lagta mai befikra sa hota jaa raha hoon, kya maine sab devon k upar chor diya mera sukh dukh meri sari chintayen meri pareshaniyan sab maine hanumanji aur shiv ji k haanthon saunp diya ya phir mai kisi galt prabav mie ghir raha hoon, mai koi mithya mie ji raha hoon ya mai moksh k marg par hoon mujhe samajh nai aaraha mai ek student hoon mere jyada pooja path karne se log mujhe andhvishwasi samajhne lage hain mujhe adhyatma pasand hai mujhe pooja karna pasand hai lagta hai jaisay mai jo baat har kisi se bata nahi sakta wo mai devon se chupa nai sakta aur shayad se dev bhi meri pareshaniyon ko samajh rahe hain aur mujhe hlka sa mehsus hota hai, kya ye mera ghamand hai ya ye meri khushi.
mujhe devon se ab koi iktcha nahi rehti bus mai unki aradhna karna chahta hoon mujhe aisa lagta hai jaisay aaj k is samay mie mai kisi par nahi par sirf devon par hi wishwas kar sakta hoon, aaj phir bhi kuch iktchaon ne mujhe gher rakha hai wo bhi sirf meri maa k liye, meri maa ne jewan bhar sirf dukha aur taklif hi jhele hain aur aaj bhi jhel rahi hai mujhe afsos jai k mai unke dukhon ko samajte hue bhi une dukh diya hai patr ab mai prayachit karna chata hoon mai bus apni maa ko sukhi rakhna chahta hoon mai bus unki saari iktchaon ko pura karna chahta hoon, mai chahta hoon k wo santusta ho kar is sansar ko tyage mai bus isi chinta mie rehta hoon, mai unhe mukti dilana chahta hoon par mai sirf ek baat se darta hoon k kahin mujhme koi ghamand naa aajaye aur mai devon ki kripa se dur ho jaun mai darta hoon k kahin main apni maa ke iktchaon ko purna karne mie piche naa reh jaun aur MAIN KI SUDH mie haar naa jaun
kya devon ki kripa mujh par rahegi kya wo meri maa k liye hi sirf mera saath denge chahe main kisi ghamand k asur ka gras ban jaun tab bhi.
mujhe devon par pura bharosa hai unhone meri humesha madat ki hai aur saath bhi rahe hain bus mujhe gyan dijhiye k main ye MAIN se kaisay chutkara paaun aur humesha saral aur satmarg par rahoon

956. Man aur Masthisk

maine abhi tak 6 adhyay padhe hai aur mere man main aneko vichar aate hai hain aur aa rahe hai...
chukin humlog iss kalyugi sansar main janme hai jahan vicharo ki shudhta nahi rehti adhuk der tak. inko kaise dur kiya jaye.

Setu Speaks: 
आत्मा के ज्ञान से जो आपको प्रभु की लीलाओं को पढ़कर मिलेगा |

|| राम ||

957. Mangal Hanuman.

Since past few months i am passing through a period of uncertainty

and anxiety due to Age and Health and Domestic factors.

My Wife`s health also not good .Then by Hanuman ji grace i happened

to Join Setu Organization.

SO far I have read Seven Chapters, the Knowledge Passed bu Mathangs

is rare and not known to Human beings.With the Completion of reading each Chapter

Sloly my Problems diluted and I am Now feeling Happy.

I feel very much elevated and non attached while reading the Chapters.

I am greatful to Lord Hanuman Ji for his Graceful Blessings on Me

and My Family.

"Hanuman Raksha Sarvada"

958. Mangal Yog

i am devotee of Lord Balaji Hanuman at Sritrimurti Dham, Kalka (Haryana-India). when my pujya guruji got approved Mangal Yog from Lord Balaji for me, i was having 5 days casual leave in my account whereas i needed 7 days casual leave. every time, on tuesday, i was deputed for official work and in this way, Lord Balaji saved all my 5 days casual leave.

959. mansik aur aarthik pareshani k sambandh mein.

Shri ganeshay namah
Jai shri raam ,jai shri hanuman

prabhu meri taklif door karein agar mere karm mein koee galti ho to use kaate ,mera man ashant rahta hai sarkaari naukari aap (hanumanji) ki kripa se prapt huee hai par man mein chain nahin hi.naukari karne ka man nahin karta roj kisi n kisi se jhagda aakhir yeh jivan mein uthal puthal kyon hi mere prabhu .baba matang se mere baare mein prabhu ka sandesh lekar preshit karein ,mujhe bhi sukhi aur mukt karein pawansut.aap k charnon mein hamesha preet bani rahe ishi kamana k saath. jai shri raam

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्म स्वरुप ,

अपने जीवन में रोजमर्रा के कामों के अलावा बड़ा ध्येय बनाइये --- मोक्ष प्राप्त करने का ध्येय , जीवन का उद्देश्य जानने का ध्येय | जब आप ब्रह्म ज्ञान में गोता लगायेंगे तब मन को सुकून मिलेगा |

|| राम ||

960. Marriage for my brother

Dear Sethu Soulls,

As your group Mathangs are capable of communicating with Hanumanji visibly please help us in getting a good bride for my younger brother as it is my duty to settle him in life.

I also need a permanent financial income to support myself so that I am not a burden on others and also to do some seva for the poor people.

Please let me know when will my brother get married and also my financial prospects as I have suffered a lot in my life.

Thankyou Mathangs

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If we tell you when, then it will affect your Karma and that "when" may never come. We can only tell you that everything will fall into its place very soon. You will be able to fulfill your responsibilities towards your brother very well. If your elder child is around age of 14, your every need will be taken care of very well until he or she grows up to take responsibilities.

Blessings

961. Matangs Chapter 2

am blessed to read the chapter on Hanumanji arrival to baba matangs land . But i have certain queries ? Hasn't Hanuman been ever-present in the kali yuga and he will be there with us till the end of this world , he being immortal ? And didn't Hanumanji declare that wherever there shall be ram nama sankirtan there he shall be present in his body to witness it ? It sounds good to know that lord hanuman really did give his darshan to the mathang community but I m sure he hasnt left the prayers unanswered of billions of devotees across the globe by either giving them darshan or fulfilling their prayer call . I want to understand why this special emphasis to the matangs and why the hype around the Lords visit to their community in particular ?! And as Setuu masters are we really looking at Hanumans devotees who have surrendered their will to Hanumanji ?! Please explain .

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Even a leaf cannot shake without Lord Hanuman's will. If some event is happening in the world and Lord Hanuman wants to make His presence felt in particular, there must be a divine reason behind that. Therefore to say that "why He is making His presence felt at this particular time" would be equivalent to saying "Why He descended on Earth in Ramayana Period and helped Lord Rama?" or "Why He came to meet Pandavas in Mahabharata Period."

We do not have authority to question events happening in this universe. Therefore we cannot comment on it.

Blessings

962. May Lord Hanuman shower His Blessings!!!

Shree Rama dhootham charanam sharanam prapadhye !!!
I feel lighter. May I be blessed with ParamAnandam abundantly!!! May His Grace be always with me!!!
I completely soulfully surrender to His Lotus Feet!!!
Prasanna Anjaneyam Namo Namah!!!

963. May Lord Hanumanji provides Blessings to all

May Lord Hanumanji bless all of us.Lord please accept my Pranam on behalf of my Family,Friends and Acquaintainces and provide Blessings to all for a Healthy and Satisfying Life.

Sudip

964. Maya aur Karm mein Bhed

samay aur kaal ka rahsya bhi hanuman ji ki pichli kuch leela mein padne aur samajhne ko mila. We've heard sansar maya hai,Sirf brahm satya hai aur brahmagyan hi lakshya hona chahiye. aisa suna hai par fir bhi mukti ki chah chhod kar hum sansar mein , biwi bachho ke liye, naukri ke liye kyun bhatakte hain. kyun hum me vairagya nahi jagta... gyan ki baat sunkar gyan pane ki pyaas jagti hai lekin hamare karm, manyatein aur sanskaar wapis hume wahin le jate. Hum kaise un sanskaro ko nasht karke ishwar prapti mein aage badein.

Jai shri Ram. Jai gurudev

Setu Speaks: 
वैराग्य के लिए संसार छोड़ना आवश्यक नहीं है | आप सब कुछ सांसारिक सुखों में रहकर भी वैरागी हो सकते हैं | जब आपको आत्मज्ञान होगा तो आपको पता चलेगा कि देह और मन संसार में लगा हो और आत्मा इश्वर में लगी हो , ये दोनों एक साथ हो सकता है | इनमे कोई अंतर्विरोध नहीं है |

965. The Maya of Time

Jai Shri Ram
Jai Shri Hanuman
Pranam,
Dear Setuu Masters, I have a doubt that has been troubling me. I ask a certain question to myself and this makes me realize how deep rooted our minds are in Maya.

I often ask myself this question, "Can I imagine a world without time. It's said that Shivaloka is timeless. How would it feel to be timeless?". However hard I try, I can never seem to imagine the feeling of being timeless. However, whenever I do think about the timeless nature of Shivaloka, I get a strange feeling. That feeling cannot be described by words alone. It must be experienced.

By asking this question to myself, I come to know that I am still deep in ignorance. My question is, how do I lift this veil of ignorance. I feel that the moment when I can imagine a timeless universe, or a world without time, I will progress a tiny bit in my sadhna.
Hey Bajrangbali, please resolve my doubt and establish me firmly on the path that leads to you.
Jai Shri Ram
Jai Shri Hanuman

Siyavar Ramchandra ki JAI!!
Pawanputra Hanuman ki JAI!!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The time runs when you observe something. Can you observe anything without elapsing time? No. When you observe something, the time moves. If you limit your observation, time will slow down. Read Rishyashringa and Queen Kaushalya's technique of stopping Time in chapter 16.

Blessings

966. maya/illusion

i was very fearful about what was happening around me for a quite few days,illusion was driving me crazy and could not analyses good or bad.now the fear has been driven out by lord hanumanji.now i realize all were the leela s of almight,whatever is happening and what ever is going to happen.now i lay on the foot of lord hanuman to help me cross the ocean of the life ..jai sree ram,jai hanuman.

967. me and anger

I'm a physiotherapist by profession. Got married to a patient of mine. Our bonding is very good. i've a problem that I get angry and iritated very soon. in past i've lost my friends who wer very close to me and I'm very guilty about it. now I'm afraid of losing people because of my anger. Losing my husband's love also. It's not under my control. I feel somebody else controlling my body. After the episode of shouting and crying, I become normal and realize i've hurt the opposite person And I feel guilty for it. I want to stop my anger hanumanji. I don't want to lose people anymore. Please help me to get rid of my anger and indecent behaviour. please help me.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

These are Asurrahs. Once they get a taste of fulfilling their desires through a particular body, they tend to come again and again in that body for which they manipulate that body-mind. To get rid of them, when you are angry try to realize yourself. You will find yourself on the "backseat" of the body while the Asurrah showing anger through the body. Once you realize yourself in that situation, most probably the Asurrah will go away. Once the Asurrahs realize that it is not easy to fulfill their desires through a body, they do not come back to that body again. So you have to show your resolve few times, then they will stop coming automatically.

Blessings

968. meaning of life

I am born into a shudra family as male child. I am 29 years old. I have few questions for which I need a better understanding.

1. I am attracted to members of the same gender. Will this affect any way my evolution towards Deliverance to Goloka?

2. Will I be able to love Sri Sri RadhaGopinatha boundlessly for ever?

3. I have been willing to make good riches and become successful and also be totally devoted to the Lord and the Queen. What is the surest way to be both materially and spiritually growing?

Please ask Sri Hanuman to bless me with KrushnaPrema.

Hare Krushna

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Physical attractions has nothing to do with Bhakti because Bhakti happens at the level of soul, not at level of body.

Take care of these 2 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.

969. Meaning of my Dream or a Thought.

Jai Sri Rama,

Hanuman, i am a devotee of Lord Sri Ram, i would like to follow the path of Lord Sri Ram. Please stay beside me all the time. Before starting my work at office, i have a habit of writing Sri Rama name on table/ all the time i remember Sri Rama and Sita Matha.

Hanuman, i would like to ask a question. Few months back, when i woke up from sleep in the morning, i don't know if it is a Dream or a Thought (got a dream that some sage said me to read Adityahrudayam) (i cannot remember exactly what happened). Before that, i know that Adityahrudayam was recited by sage Agastya to Rama on the battle field. Is it a Dream or a Thought? Why i remembered Adityahrudayam, when i wake up and doing my daily things. I want to know the meaning of that dream/thought. I have a habit of saying all my problems before Sri Rama.

I don't know what message my Lord Sri Rama is conveying to me through that Thought/Dream of Adithyahrudayam. Please answer me Hanuman. Is our Sri Rama offering my prayers? Is he happy with my Puja/chanting his name? I think it is not possible to see you with my Eyes, please come into my dreams Hanuman. I want to see you and talk to you all the time. Please suggest me the correct path to Succeed in life.

Please answer my questions Hanuman. Waiting for your answers.

Thanks Hanuman and Setuu Organisation.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If what was happening in the dream was as per the usual rules of this world, then it may not be dream, you may have actually met the sage, may be your soul traveled back in time and met the sage.

Just recall that dream. Was there anything weird about any things you saw in the dream. If yes, it was a dream. Dreams means that an unfulfilled desire of yours got purged in SwapanLoka. It was not possible for Indra to arrange your encounter with a sage in MaanavLoka, so He did it in SwapanLoka and your desire got purged there.

Blessings

970. Meditating in this era of time

I am a regular meditator and I believe that meditation is a best thing to do in this world.Lord hanuman is the best meditator as all of us know,so I want to ask lord hanuman that although I am having a focused ,stress free mind and I am fulfilling my spiritual goal but at the same time my materialistic goals are not completed.Because my age is only 19th now so there is a ample time to complete my spiritual goal,so I pray to lord hanuman to shower his blessings on me so I can complete my materialistic goal as early as possible
Thanking you
setuu

971. Meeting Mother Teresa

I have shared this experience with my mother . It is something very close to my heart -

I am 30 years old now and when I dream this I was probably 25. What I saw was Mother Teresa on her death bed before her final journey to the final Abode. What was peculiar was the grandeur of the dream. I remember is rows and rows and lines and files of people standing in que all leading to where she was laying on a bed . The place where she laid was on a higher ground an lines of people led to it. Also gold was what I think was her bed made of . I remember two more things which I have no clue why - one Was I was led to her bedside by a small girl who held my hand and as if guiding me through those thousands of lines of people so that I don't get lost , taking secret shortcuts - when I reached her bedside she called me near and whispered something in my ear. I DO NOT REMBER IT. It's something that I wish I remember . Secondly right after that , after she whispered something her bed was raised or picked up by the people around her and she was taken away. Again the girl led me out and I woke up. I till date try to decipher the dream. You think the Setuu masters can help me out in seeking the truth out .

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

A dream only means that there was a deep desire expressed by your soul and Lord Indra was not able to fulfill that desire in MaanavLoka. So that pending desire was purged in SwapanLoka or the dream world.

May be you had deeply desired (consciously/unconsciously) meeting or being close to mother Teresa. It was not possible to fulfill that desire here, so it was fulfilled in dream.

Desires are expressed in complicated ways. May be you had desired that 'may an angel help me in meeting mother Teresa' so that girl appeared as an angel in your dream.

If what was happening in that scene was as per the rules of this world, then that may not be dream or SwapanLoka. Your soul may have time-traveled back to the time when she was on deathbed and actually met her.

Blessings

972. mera anubhav..

mene poori post padi me abhibhut hun,,bhagvan mahaveer hanuman ji ki bharm ki vyakhya adbhut he , is mayavi sansar ka itna sateek chitran pahle kabhi nahi pada na suna ,, mere naman or pranaam matngon ko ,,Setuu ki teem ko or pavan putr hanumaan ji ko ,,

973. mera anubhav

Mai class 8 ka student tha. Baba bajrangbali ki ek standing photo mere samne thi. Hanuman mahaveer ka dhyan karte samay ek prakash punj me babaji laghu roop me hamari taraf is tarah druti gati se doudte hue aane lage ki maine bhay se ankhe khol di. Baba JI ka vah adbhut swaroop mughe ajtk nhi bhulta.parantu dubara vah swaroop prayash krne ke bad bhi nhi dikhai diya.

974. mera anubhav

maine apne jivan me bahut kasht uthaye hai.. lekin maine kabhi kisi ka na to bura chaha aur na hi bura kiya... apni taraf se jo bhi ban pada sabki sahayta ki...lekin kisi ne mujh par aur mere ghar par abhichar karm (black magic) karva diya... kafi varsho tak mujhe samjh me nahi aaya ki mere sath ho kya raha hai ... in kuch varsho me mere sath jo kuch bhi hua wo bahut hi bhayanak anubhav tha..lekin jab samajh me aaya tab maine hanuman ji ki sharan me jana uchit samjha...aur ab hanuman ji ki kripa se mere jivan me sab kuch sahi ho raha hai... jai veer hanuman...

975. Mera Desh

Mai yeh anubhav likhne se pahle setuu ke sabhi santo ko dandatwat pranam krta hu. mera yeh anubhav isphutit hua setuu ka 12 adhyay padne ke bad, jab mai 12 va adyay ko pada toh mujhe yah cheej hanuman ji ke madhyam se samajh me aayi ki burai ka aant tab tak nhi hota aur wah anne wali se nai burai utpann krti hai jabtak ki wo burai wali aatma solvation/moksha ko na prapta ho. Isse yeh ispat hota hai ki jb mera desh shanti me tab tak nhi aayega jab tak ki burai failane wali aatmayo jo ki history of india se asani se samajha ja sakta hai ki kaise kaise atayachar hua hai mere pyare deshvashiyo pr. 1000 sal se jyada ho chuke hai atyacharo ko sashan krte huye iska matlab yeh hai ki ek hazar sal ki atmaye abhi tak moksha nhi pa payi hai aur nit prati nayi buraiya failaya krti hai. To mera yaha sanvad likhne ka prayojan yeh hai ki mai us praam shakti se prarthana krta hu, hanuman ji se gujarissh krta hu, un matang rishiyo ki poorvajo, upasthik rishiyo aur santano se yeh archana krta hu ki yeh mere desh me faily burayo kyu ki yeh burai na ki is desh tak simit hai puri duniya hi iski girah me hai to un sabhi ke hit ke liye mai guhar lagata hu ki na hi mera isse se prasant atma hogi yadhapi isse judi sari aatyamaye nyyi jindagi ki suruyat karegi aisa mera soch kahta hai kyu ki vatavaran badalao mahsus karega aur sanskrati ke nam ka kalaank mit jayega.aage jo ki mera kahna hai ki jaise raja sagar ke 60000 putro ko moksha mata ganga ke dwara mil gya so ham ek jagah se atamayo ko sudh kr sakte hai bhagawan hannuman ji ke sahayata se although meri atama bhi utni hi kalushit hui hai, meri guhar yahi se suruwat karegi ki kyu na mujhse hi suruwat ho mai bhi un surya ki kanti se shobhit prabhu ke darshno ka prarthi banu.
meri prabhu ke charano me dhyan aa jane se hi meri aankhen komal ho jati hai unka samaran krne lagti hai. antatah meri un kripasagar se vintai itni hi hai ki vastutah ise yeh kahkr na chhod de ki kalki bhagwa aa kr hi iska udhyar aise krenge. baki mai prabhu ki marzi pr rakh deta hu.
Jai bajrang bali sarkar ki

976. mera dharma ko janna

HI MERE IS JIWAN M LOG MUJE RAJIV K NAM S JANTE H PER MERA NAM RAJIV NAHI H M TO BS KRISHN KA EK DAS HU JO APNE KCH KARMA KA FAL BHOGNE AYA HU YA MUKTI KI OOR.....
MERI Y SACCHAI AJ S ONE YEAR 6 MONTH PAHLE KI H JAB MANE KHUD KO PAHCHANA OR US GOVIND KO JO HAR KARAN KA KARAN H......
PARIWAR: RAJIV (SELF) WIFE( LAXMI ) BHAI (RAJESH) PAPA OR MUMMY
GHATNA KUCH IS PRAKAR HUI....
GHAR M KHUSI ANE KA WAQT THA LAXMI KO PRASAV HONA THA USK PRASAV S 15 MIN PAHLE HOSPITAL M MUJE JAISE KISI N Y SANKET DIYA KI BATI KA JANM HONE WALA H MUJE BAHUT KHUSI THI KYUKI M BETI HI CAHTA THA.
KUCH SAMAY BAD BETI KA JANM HUA OR M KHUS SABI PARIWAR K SATH.PER DUKH B SATH AYA THA LAXMI KO KUCH AJIB FEEL HO RAHA THA JAISE KOI EK AURAT KI ATMA USKE PAS H OR BACCHI KO USSE CHINNA CAHTI H PER HAMARE GHAR K KUL DEVTAO N RAKHA KI OR KUCH NAHI HUA PER USKI PIDA KAM NAHI HUI THI WO DARD S KARAH RAHI THI SABHI KO LAGA KI KOI NAHI THIK HO JAYGA OR DUSRE DIN HUM DONO KO GHAR L AYE.
PER DARD KA SILSILA RUKA NAHI WO OR BADTA HI GAYA SABHI PARESAN CHINTA M LUPT THE OR USE TIK KARNE KI KOSIS M THE PER KOI FAYDA NAHI.
HAR JAGH DIKHAYA 1 MAHINA GUJAR GAYA PER KCH NAHI HUA OR BAD M MALUM HUA KI KISI DUST ATMA ISKA KARAN H... KISI JHAD FOOK KARNE WALE KO DIKHAYA OR USNE ILAZ KIYA B PER SB BEKAR..BAHUT SAMASYA THI..US DUST ATMA N USKE SARIR PER PURA KABZA KAR LIYA THA ESA HOTA HI H KYUKI EK SARIR M EK HI ATMA KA VAS HO SAKTA H DO KA NAHI JIS PRAKAR EK MYAN M DO TALWAR NAHI A SAKTI USI PRAKAR Y H..WO US BHUT NA SAHAN KARNE WALI PIDA DENE LAGI OR ISI BICH M RAJESH JO KI GOVIND KA BHAKT THA USE BHI ACHANAK S KUCH HUA OR WO BOLA KAHA H WO HAU DARE KI ISKO KYA HUA OR KCH DER BAD HAMNE JANA KI KOI SUDDH ATMA USK SARIR M THI JO HAMRI HELP KARNE AAI THI FIR DIWALI PAS THI OR DIWALI KI RAT JAISE BHUKAMP A GAYA HO LAXMI M WO DUST ATMA OR RAJESH M WO GOVIND KRIPA..
US DIWALI KI RAT MUJE GYAN MILA KI JIWAN WASTAV M H KYA..RAJESH K SARIR M WO MAHARAJ ( SUDDHA ATMA ) BAHUT HI SANT BHAV S THE OR HUM SABHI KO GYAN KI BATE BATA RAHE THE UNHONE BATAYA KI PICHLE 7 SALO S WO MERE BHAI KO SUDDH KARNE M LAGE HUE THE KYUKI Y SAMSYA ANE WALI H OR ISE THIK KARNA HOGA OR US GOVIND K ADESH PER WO AYE H WO HANUMAN BHAKT H..UNHONE HAME SAMJHAYA OR HAME RASTA DIKHAYA FIR KISI PRAKAR BHT SAMYA BAD LAXMI THIK HUI OR MERE GYAN KA VISTAR.. MAHARAJ N BAHUT HI SANTH BHAV S MUJE WO KCH SAMJHAYA JO M TO KYA LOG JAN B NAHI PATE H JIWAN MRATYU H KYA ..M GOVIND KO SAMJNE LAGA OR VICHARO M MAGAN RAHNE LAGA USKE..NIRANTAR USKA NAM THA KABHI KABHI RAT KO NEEND KHULTI TO LAGTA KI USI KA NAM JAP RAHA HU.. DHARMA PER VICHAR KARNE LAGA SAHI GALAT KI PAHCHAN KARNE LAGA OR HAR WAQT ANKHO M ANSU RAHNE LAGE ISWAR KO DHANYAWAD DENE LAGA KI USNE MJE NARK S NIKALA OR JIWAN KYA H SAMJHAYA..M TRAH TRAH K PRESN PUCHNE LAGA GOVIND S OR GOVIND B MUJE WAQT K HISAB S MERE SAMNE USKA UTTAR DENE LAGE..EK BAR MNE UNSE PUCH HEY PRABHU JAL (WATER) KA SANCHAY ( STORE) KARNA KYU GALAT H KISI BHI CHEEJ KA STORE KARNA GALAT KYU H WO DUKH KA KARAN KAISE HO SKTA H? OR USI RAT M 2PM NEEND KHULI OR M TOILET KARNE GAYA OR AKAR JAB PANI PIYA TO JAISE HI WO JAL KA EK GHUNT MERE ANDAR GAYA MUJE EAHSAS HUA KI KISI BHI CHEEJ KA STORE HAMARI ICCHAO KA KARAN H OR HAMARI ICCHAYE HI DUKH KA KARAN H..M GOVIND S JUDTA GAYA OR WO MUJE KHUD S JODTA GAYA..AB MUJE HAR ROJ APNE SAPNO M UNKA EHSAS HONE LAGA KABHI HANUMAN K ROOP M KABHI BANDAR K RUP M KABHI GOVIND K ROOP M..OR M SANTI KI OR JANE LAGA SANGHARSH KO TYAGNE LAGA OR SANTI HI PARAM UDDESH BANA LIYA DHARMA MUJ M SAMANE LAGA ADHARAMA JANE LAGA..MANAV JIWAN VASTAV M EK SANYAS HI H AGAR USE JINA H TO....

977. Mera Jeevan Hanuman ji Ko Arpan

Me Ek Brahmin Parivar se Hu mere Pita shree Ek Pujari hai. Me Hanuman ji ko Bhot Maanta Hu Kyu Ki Muje Mere Bal Taqaat Or Buddhi K ye He Gyata Hai, Me Kuch Samay Se Bht Visham Samasya Me Hu Me Roz Hanuman Ji k Pooja Aradhana Karta Hu, Muje Hanuman Ji par Bhot Vishwas Hai or Me Jaanta Hu k Meri Samasya Ka Samadhaan Keval Inhi k Pas hai.

Me sharir Se dubla Patla Hu muje Acha sharir Banana hai or me apna career Acting or film line k trf banana chahta hu, Haal he me kuch samay pehle lagbhag 2saal hone ko aarhe hai, me kisi k karib aaya lekin pata nahi kyu ab vo mujsr durr jana chahti hai, in sabhi samasyaao m mein Bhot buri tarah fasa hua hu...
muje raah dikhayie hanuman ji
"JAI SHREE RAM"

978. Mera kabhi socha nhi wo ho Gya

hanuman ji k kripa se Mera jeewan bahut Achha ho Gya. ☆Jo lag Rha tha bahut mushkil Kam☆ Wo Mumkin ho Gya. ☆prabhu Mein dhnya ho Gya ☆ prabhu Mein dhnya ho Gya.☆

979. Mera Marag Darshan Kijiye

Maine sabhi Adhayaye Padhe hai. Mujhe yeh nahi pata ki maine muktisagar se nikal kar apni kaun si icha puran karne ke liye iss lok mein janam liya hai.. mujhe kabhi koyi swapan nahi aya agar aya bhi hai toh jo din mein koyi kaam kiya hai uske related aya hai. kirpa hanuman ji mera marag darshan kare. mere ghar mein sabhi meri shadi ke liye pareshan rehte hain lekin main shadi nahi karna chahti kyunki shayad maine apni zindgi mein ek ladke se prem kiya tha lekin uss ladke ne mera sath chod diya apni maa ke liye. uski maa humse daaj dahej mein aur shadi ke barati ke liye bhut uchi demand kar rahi thi jo mere aur mere ghar walo ke bas mein nahi tha. Humne unse kaha tha ki humse shadi mein jo bann padega woh karenge aur maine uss ladke ko bhi samjhaya tha lekin woh apni maa ki galat baton mein aa gya aur mera sath chod diya. abb main shadi nahi karna chahti hun kyunki mujhe inn sabhi baton se darr lagta hai. Maine jab 4th adhayaye mein padha ki muktisagar se har koyi aatma koyi icha puran karne ke liye ess nashwar sansar mein janam leti hain. Mujhe yeh kaise pata chalega ki meri kya icha hai jo main puran karne ke liye iss lokk mein aayi hun.. main jaldi se jaldi iss lokk ko chod kar jana chahti hun. kirpa hanuman ji meri sahayta kare. mujhe marag darshan dijiye..

Setu Speaks: 
पुण्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

मान लीजिये आपने किसी बैंक से लोन लिया | बैंक की शर्त ये थी कि आप अगर समय पर लोन चुकाती हैं तो आपको एक इन्स्योरंस स्कीम मुफ्त मिलेगी | आपने समय पर लोन चुका दिया | बैंक आपको अब मुफ्त में वह इन्सुरेंस स्कीम देना चाहता है | आप मना कर रही है कि आपको वह स्कीम नहीं चाहिए और आप आज के बाद बैंक से लेन देन नहीं करना चाहती है |

ऐसा ही हुआ है आपके साथ | आपने पिछले कुछ बुरे कर्मो का फल जुदाई और ब्रेक अप के रूप में भुगत लिया लेकिन आपके कुछ अच्छे कर्मों का फल भुगतना बाकी है | और शायद आगे भी यह श्रंखला चलने वाली है | आप अपनी मर्जी से यह श्रंखला नहीं तोड़ सकते | आपको पूरा कर्मो का अकाउंट क्लियर करना है इसलिए जिंदगी में जो कुछ मिले, अच्छा और बुरा दोनों , आपको स्वीकार करते जाना है ताकि जल्द ही आपके कर्मों के बही खाते क्लियर हो जाएँ |

राम ||

980. Mera Nivedan

Mai sarvpratham shree Sitaram ji ke charano me pranam krta hu jo jagat ki utpatti, palan aur sanhar ke karan hai...
AAge mai Shree Bajrang Bali sarkar aur Unke Priya Matang rishiyo aur aant me setu ke santoko pranam karta hu.
Mera Avedan yeh hai ki mai bhi Rishiyo ke sharan me rah kr unka anusharan krte huye is jeevan ko safal krna chahta hu. jaisa ki mai bachpan se hi ek vishes prakar ka khichav mahsus krta rha hu ki mai santo ki tarah hi jeevan jiyu aur sare deh ke sambandho ko dheere kam krte huyeis jeevan ke uddeshya ko prapt karu. Mai Sri Ram Avtar Gupta ka dusre no. ka putra hu jinka gotra kashyap hai aur ham Panch bhai hai. aur bhne thi jinki shadi ho gyi hai. mere gav me badi hi shanti ke mahaul ke sath ram nam ki pheri subah sham nikalti hai mere gav me ishwar ke poojan ke liye badi shradha hai. mere gav me aaj se 30-36 sal phle bhut bade sant aaye the jo Sitaram ji ke upashak the unhe mera gav bhut priya lagta tha aur wo wha aakr chitrakoot ke santo ko aandan ke liye prerit krte the. mere gav me unhone 2 -3 bar bhandara bhi kiya. mere gav me log bade hi dharmik ho rhe hai. wo ishwar ki satta pr vishwas krte hai. mera pariwar 30 sal phle pas ke gav se uthkr is gav me aaya tha aur abhi wahi bas gya hai. mai abhi baba vishnath ki sharan me rahkar Kashi hindu viswavidhalaya se vidyaadhyan kr rha hu lekin mai jb se setuu ke sanidhya me aaya hu mera umang ka thikana nhi hai. maine jo bhi anubhuti ki hai in 12 adhyayo ko padkar ki mai apne ko mai aur deh me aantar dekhne laga hu. aur maine jo bhi pichle shastro pr pada tha us gyan ko bhi bhulne laga hu. mai jyada to nhi khta bs ek aas hai man pr mere.
mere pita ji hanuman ke pujari the wo har mangalwar ko sunderkand ka path kiya krte the wo bhi bade man se unhone 20-25 sal tk wh kiya jissse bachpan se sunte sunte hame sundarkand yad ho gya. mai bachpan me pass ke mandir me jakar bhagwan sitaram ji ki aarti me shamil ho jaya krta tha. yeh hi sb krte huye unke sharan lete huye mai aj 27 sal ka ho gya hu. mai phle shree sitaram ji ko dhyan kiya krta tha aur hanuman ji ko bs pranam kiya krta tha mai aaj bhi hanuman ji bs pranam kta hu. mujhe is vidhyadhayan me kam ishwar ki pooja me bhut man lgta hai aisa mai samajhata hu ho bhi sakta hai mai isse darta hu phir bhi mai ishwar ke samipya ko jyada pasand krta hu. aapke adhyyayo ko pad kr aatmik aanubhav prapt hua. mujhe jeevan ke jo aas pass ka vatavaran hai use maine aap ke mail ke kahe anusar yaha likha hu. mai gyarahwe adhyay ko pad kr chhah aur karm ko samjjha aur tab se ram ji ke darshan ki chhhah bana li hai . maine kuch samaya phle brahm gyan ki ichha man me jagrat ki thi bhagwan sitaram jji ke samne shayad ishwar ki wahi ichha ho. annt me ram ji ke charnar bindo ke darshano ki chhah liye huye jai shree ram.

981. Mera Prashan

MENE JAB SE YEH ADHYAYE PADHNE CHALO KIYE HAI MERE MAN ME BOHOT SHANTI HAI GUSSA KAM ATA HAI ZINDGI KO SAMAJ NE LAGYA HO...
KI KESE ZINDGI JINI HAI SAMAJ NE LAGA HOON ZINDGI KOO KII ZINDGI SAB MEHENT SE MILTA AUR EK WAKT SE MILTA HAI JAB SE
IS WEBSITE KE BARE ME MERE BADE BHAIYA Shri.Aparimit Singhal ji NE BATAYA
Aur jab se mene Adhyaye padhne chalo kiye hai tab se mein apni atma ko aur bhi halka mehesoos kar raha hooo

Mera Prashan
Duniya se juda Nahi hai Yeh Prashan MERE PARIVAR ke bare me hum ek same me bohot ache se rete the PRABHU ki kripa se abhi bhi bohot kuch hai lekin kuch duvidha hai jo dur karana chata HU JESE

1. Humare Privar Me (Tensions) Bohot hai ABHI PRABHU Shri. HANUMAN JI ki Kripa SE humne Beyaj par paisa leke EK (OFFSET PRINTING MACHINE LAGAYI HAI) Lekin Oske Liye kam Nahi araha hai ek wakt par hum logo ke pass bohot acha kam tha lekin ek DUM se katam jesa hogya ......

aur in kuch 5/6 Sallo (YEARS) mein Hum logo ke sath bohot kuch hua

jese

1. Chacha se ladai hatha pai rishta katam

2. kabhi kabhi toh esa hota tha ki ghar me subha khanna kha liya raat ka kuch pata nahi kii milega ke nahi

lekin prabhu ki kripa se ab thik hai par pehele jese nahi.....

KUCH PARESHANIYA ABHI BHI JESE

PAPA AUR BADE BHAIYA PAR KARJA KABHI PAISE HOTE KABHI NAHI HOTE HAI

Mehenat kareahe hai par koi natija nhai mil raha hai

Kam Ata hai Par Jitni Kamai hoti hai woh Sari Karja Chukane me Nikal Jati hai

EK BAAT AUR AGAR MENE KOI GALATI KARI HO TOH YEH SARI BAAT KARKE TOH
MUJHE MAAF KAR DIJYEGA PLEASEEEEEEE

----

Setu Speaks: 
आपकी प्रार्थना पहुंचा दी गई है | सन्देश यह मिला है कि आप अपने जीवन पर ध्यान दें और अपने कार्य भली भांति करें | परिवार की चिंता न करें , उनकी परेशानियाँ धीरे धीरे समाप्त हो जायेंगी |

982. mere anubhab

jay shri ram ji mera hanuman ji me puran visvas he vo meri har musibat me sahayta karte he me jab bhi hanuman ji ko kast ke samay me yad karta hu to bo sigra hi meri prathna sunte he mujhe apka ye setu wala program bahut achha lagta he karpa ap ese hi hame hanuman ji ke bare me batate rhe thanywad baba mera samay abhi kharab chal rha he cort caheri ka meri madat kre he hanuman ji jay shri ram arthik tangi ke din chal rhe he me is layak bhi nhi hu abhi ki apki pooja me kuch de sako mere din ache ayege jaldi ye mera visvas he hanuman ji par or fir mebhi seva me hissa luga jay shri ram ji

983. Mere bhai hanuman ji

Veer Hanuman ji,
Pranaam
Mujhe aapke saath ki bht zaroorat hai bahiya.Isduniya mein koi ache ka saath nai deta aap bhi kyu unhi logo ka sath dete ho.wo log khush rehte aur acha krne wale roote. Hamesha aapko yaad karti hoon,,k shayad aab aaoge aap meri baat sunne..bht mann karta hai k aapki gaud mein sarr rakh k ro lo aur man halka ho jaye par aap sunte kyun nai ho meri.main aapki choti bhen hoon aap sab jaante ho k mere saath kya kya hua hai par sach bahiya aab bardasht nai ho raha .plz.bas karo aab aur bhen ki bhi pukaar sun lo.mujhe bht zaroorat hai apne bhai ki.aur koi nai hai mere paas aapke siva jise bta sako apna dukh.sab haste hai mujh par.aap hi samjhoge bs meri problem plz aa jao bhaiya bas aab aur bardasht nai hota nai hassa jata aur dikhawe ka..aandar se toot gayi ho.har tarah andhera lagne lagga hai aab.kya karo kuch samajh mein nai aa raha.plz bhaiya mera margdarshan karo sahi raah dikaho aur inn dukho ka ant kardo meri zindagi mein bhi.itni badnaseeb to nai main k aap meri nai sunoge.plz bhaiya plz.
Aapki chotti bhen

984. mere hanuman

jai shree ram

mera jivan hanuman ji se bahut hi akarshit raha jab bhi hanuman ji ki photo ya murti dhekhata hu to mere leye vaha kisi chamtkar ka kam nahi hai mere jivan mai jab jab sakant aye hai vah sab hanuman ji ki kripa ka dur hua hai bas mai yahi chahta hu ki ek bar unke dharshan ho jaye

jai shree ram

Setu Speaks: 
-- Divine Soul,
Your wish shall be fulfilled at the right time.

Blessings

985. mere hanumanta ji

sometime words cannot describe the real feeling of your heart but, i am trying my best to expalin you how do i feel after reding such precious and valuable topics related to hanu ji . my heart is realizing hanumanta's presence all the time and his blessings will come in life every day. i have such feeling in my mind.

whenever i find that i didn't receive what i was looking for out of life,i always take the shelter in the feet of my beloved hanumanta ji and he gives me immense pleasure and joy towards life.

k.k.jamal

986. mere jivan ka lakshya kya hai ?

JAI HANUMAAN JI
sabse pehle mai aap sabhi ko pranaam karti hu. jo hum jaise bhatke huye insaano ko is madhyam se sakshat bhagwaan se milane ka pryaas kar rhe hain . www.setuu.org .........par aane ka mera anubhav bhot achaa rha ......aisa laga mano ..jaise meri aatma ko hanuman ji se milne ka avsar mil gya ho .........mera ek prashn hai ...har insaan ka janm kisi na kisi udeshya (aim ) se hua hai ......mere jivan ka aim mai abhi tak nhi jaan payi .......kripa krke margdarshan kare ...........yadi mere likhne mai koi truti ho to kshama kijiyega ..........jai bajranbali

Setu Speaks: 
हर आत्मा का उद्देश्य जन्म लेने के पीछे यही होता है कि वह अपनी सभी इच्छाओं को पूर्ण करके मोक्ष की और अग्रसर हो | लेकिन इस मायावी संसार में आने के बाद आत्मा के ऊपर इच्छाओं का बोझ बढ़ता चला जाता है जिन्हें पूरा करने के लिए वह एक के बाद एक जन्म लेती रहती है |

987. mere karm

jaisa ki setu ke mahan paropkari santo ki daya aur mehant se durlabh aur asim hanuman kripa sb tak seedhe barasai ja rhi hai, is kripa ke samudra me jb mai gota lagata hu to mujhe wah atayant aanaad ki prapti aur bhut se vichitra vicharo me dubne lagta hu, woh vichar yeh hai ki mai kaise apne aur apne parivesh ka bhala kr saku apitu mai isko padne ke bad bhi abhi tak koi naya anubhav mahsus nhi krta hu. tathapi mujhe jaisa gyan tha ki hanuman ji ki utapti ka karan bhi matang rishi hi the, jo ki kahi kahi purano me padne me ata hai. jaisa ki ramayan me ata hai ki matang rishi ke sare sishya aur swayam rishiwar matang swarg chale gye the sirf sabari hi matang ki sishya bachi thi bhagwan prabhu ram ke darshano ki abhilasha liye huye aur wo bhi sawag chali gyi thi jb prabhu ram ji ne unhe darshan diya tha sugriv mitrata ke pahle. Tb to meri jigyasa bad hi jati hai matang rishiyo ke charano ka vandan karnae, darshan krne aur unke bare me janne ki. yadhaypi mai balako ki tarah thithai aur hasai ka patra hu jo aisi bebuniyad bato ko uthata hu tathapi mera un sabhi rishiyo se sar rakh kr pranam aur nivedan hai ki ham sab ko bhi apni sharan de jb unka aur hamara aise sajhatkar ho hi chuka hai to. hamare is jeevan me jaha paise ko hi mahatva diya jata hai aur uske liye kitne bure karm kiye jate hai to unke bad koi mahan puroosh bhi sochkar jb ki uske sanskar aise ho ki use ishwar bhajan achhha lagta hai, buri tarah se apne aap ko thaga hua aur karmo ke jal me badhan hua mahsus krta hai aur na chahte huye bhi use chutakara nhi milta. aur abhi mai aksar hi yeh sochkar bhut dukhi hua karta hu ki jaise jaise ham is sansar me badete aur apni jindagi jite hai ham apne janmo ke karmo ke bandhan ko badate jate hai artaht naye karm banate jate hai. aur maine pada hai apne banaye karm bina khud bhoge khatm nhi hote. meri bhi yah ichha bachpan se hai ki mai jangal me muniyo ki tarah rahu aur sirf ishwar ka bhajan karu lekin abhi jb apne jeevan ke 28 sal jee liya aur karmo me assakt ho gya hu to mujhe aisa lagata hai ki mai bhi ab in karmo me aise jakad gya hu ki ab mere sse us sudh prem aur shanti se mai jangal me bhi nhi rah sakta. ab meri prabhu hanuman ji ke charano me vinati hai jo apne sabhi bhakto ko bahut prem krte aur apne prabhu sri sitaram ji ke charano se us priyajan ko dal dete hai aise dayalu prabhu ko sat sat koti koti pranam.
aur aant me yehi assha rakhta hu ki is he parmeshawar hamre sabhi pap karmo ko nast kijiye.

Setu Speaks: 
||शुभाशीष||

988. Mere mitra Hanumanji

Main Hanuman Ji ko apna mitra, apna sakha, apna Guru ya yu kahinye ki sab kuch manta hu. Inka simran, inka naam hi meri life hain, Bachpan se mera man inki bhakti ke liye lalchata hain, mujhe is sansar main aur koi bhi moh nahi, keval hanumanji ki bhakti ke sivaye.

Mere Anubhav ya vichar mujhe lagta hain ki me inhe shabdo main bayaan nahi kar sakta. Jab likhta hu to lagta hain ki khanto beet janyge Hanumanji or apne bare main. Main sirf itna kahunga ki

" Jo prani or Atma apna sab kuch tyag kar, apne ahem ko 0 kar ke unki saran me jati hain wo unhe kabhi nirash nahi hone dete, wo apne hone aur apni kirpa ka sanket bhi apne bhakto ko dete hain. Bas kewal jaroorat hain to sache man se vishwas karne ki "

" Angad ne Ramayan me Ravan ko samjhate hue thik hi kaha tha ki Prabhu ki Kirpa prapt karne ke liye un par vishwas karna hi padta hain, Jo un par pura vishwas nahi karte unhe unki puri kirpa prapt nahi hoti"

" Prbhu apne bhakt aur uske dheeraj ki pariksha tab tak lete hain jab tak dubte hue unke sir ke akhri bal ka antim chor nazar nahi ata, usi antim chor se wo apne bhakt to nikalte hain. Bas zarrorat hain to un par vishwas karne ki tabhi wo ate hain aur apne bhakte ko apne bacho ko kritarth karte hain".

Jai Shree Ram ! Jai Jai Hanuman !!

989. Mere Param Poojya HANUMAN Ji

Aaj mai jo kuchh bhi hu sb mere prabhu ki den h.ar future me jo kuchh v rhunga sb mere prabhu ka aashirwad hoga.meri itni hi iksha h ki jb tk jiu mai apne prabhu ki sewa krta rhu.Inke ek aadesh pe mai 100 bar marne ar 100 bar paida hone k lie hr wqt taiyar hu mai.Mere prabhu mere lie meri Jindagi hai.Mai hamesa apne prabhu k charno me rhna chahta hu.Mai apne prabhu se bs yhi kahna chahta hu ki mujhe kv khud se dur mt kijiega.

990. MERE PRABHU

KOI KHAS VICHAR NAHI AATA SIVAY ISKE KI WO MARE DAD HAIN ESA MAN KAR HI MAIN UNKI POOJA KARTI HOON THEEK HAI YA GALAT MUZE NAHI PATA PAR WO MUZE BAHOOT ACHE LAGTE HAI OR MAIN UNSE YAHI PRATHNA KARTI HOON MUZE PRABHU BHAKTI OR DARSHAN PRADAN KARE

SHREE CHARNO MAIN PRANAM

991. Mere Prabhu Hanumaan Ji

Jai Siya Ram Mitro

Prabhu charno main Koti Koti Naman or sastang Pranam.

mera anubhav hain ki Prabhu shri Hanumaan ji Mere Sareer main Prabesh Karte hain or unki Kripa se unhone or bhi aneye devtao ke ane ke liye bhi Marg Khola hain jis se or bhi devta mere sareer main Prabes kar sakte hain ..

bas Prabhu Se kar Badh Binti hain ki Jo bhi bandhan or Badha unke mere sareer main prabesh karne main hain use turant hi door kare or Hanumaan Ji shighrta se apni Purnta Grahan Kara tatha mujhe avem mere sareer ko Sudh kare.
Prabhu sheegrta se meri binti sune. or mujhe apne charan kamlo main stah pradan kare.

Jai Siya Ram
Jai Veer Hanumaan
Jai Shri Ram

Prabhu Charno main punha koti koti naman.

Prabhu Balak ki samast Galtioyo ko maaf kare or mujhe apni sharan main sthan de.

Jai Siya Ram

992. Mere pyaare hanuman ji

Mere pyaare hanuman ji ko sadar pranam..... Sab par apni kripa bnaye rakhiye..... Baccho aur striyon ki raksha kare.....

993. mere sapne se related question k answer jaanna hai mujhe

Hey Maatang rishi pranaam...... Mujhe hamesha sapne me saamp(snake) dikhai deta hai. Matlab month me 2-3 times mujhe snake k sapne dikhte hai... Aur kai tarah k snake dikhte hai mujhe sapne me. Lekin khaas baat ye hai ki koi bhi snake mujhe nuksaan nahi pahuchaate. Mujhe thoda dar(fear) lagta hai sapne me bhi but kabhi kisi snake ne mujhe kaata(bite) nhi. Kya aap mujhe mere sapne ka rahashya bataane me help karenge. kya reason hai ki mujhe snake k sapne bahut aatey hai. Maine sapne me kai baar sheshnaag k bhi darshan kiye hai..

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मस्वरुप ,

आप स्वपन लोक में जाकर नाग की देह धारण करते हैं | आपको यह पता नहीं चलता कि आप नाम की देह धारण किये हुए हैं क्योंकि आप स्वयं को नहीं देखते , केवल सामने की चीजों को देखते हैं | जब आप स्वयं नाग की देह धारण करेंगे तो आपको आस पास नाग ही दिखेने और नाग नाग को नहीं काटता |

आप नाग की देह इसलिए धारण करते हैं क्योंकि आपकी आत्मा की कुछ अंदरूनी इच्छाएं हैं जो केवल नाग की देह में पूर्ण हो सकती हैं , मनुष्य देह में नहीं | इसलिए आपकी आत्मा स्वपन लोक में जाकर नाग की देह धारण करके वो इछाये पूरी करके लौट आती है | आपने वहां जो कुछ किया उसकी हलकी सी स्मृति वापिस मानव लोक में आ जाती है |

|| राम ||

994. Meri 12th passing

Mera nam Ashutosh Patil hai. Maine 2009 main 12th ki exam di aur Maine kuch bhi paper nhi likhe the muze khud lagta tha ki main fail hone wala hu tabi Maine hanuman chalisa padhne shuru ki aur result lagne tak main har roj chalisa din main ek bar chalisa padhtha tha aur mera vishwas bhi tha ki hanuman ji muze jarur pass karenge aur main pass bhi hua.
Muze bhi hanuman ji se milna hai aur meri aatma shudh karne ki hai main hanuman ji ka param bhakti hu main abi bhi har roj din main ek din hanuman chalisa padhta hu aur meri bahut eccha hai ki hanuman ji muze darshan de aur muze bramha gyan de kar meri aatma shudh kar de.
JAI SHREE RAM
JAI SHREE HANUMAN

995. Meri 12th passing

Mera nam Ashutosh Patil hai. Maine 2009 main 12th ki exam di aur Maine kuch bhi paper nhi likhe the muze khud lagta tha ki main fail hone wala hu tabi Maine hanuman chalisa padhne shuru ki aur result lagne tak main har roj chalisa din main ek bar chalisa padhtha tha aur mera vishwas bhi tha ki hanuman ji muze jarur pass karenge aur main pass bhi hua.
Muze bhi hanuman ji se milna hai aur meri aatma shudh karne ki hai main hanuman ji ka param bhakti hu main abi bhi har roj din main ek din hanuman chalisa padhta hu aur meri bahut eccha hai ki hanuman ji muze darshan de aur muze bramha gyan de kar meri aatma shudh kar de.
JAI SHREE RAM
JAI SHREE HANUMAN

996. Meri bachpan ka ek hissa

Mai 12 saal ka tha mai hanuman ji ki kafi aradna krta tha
ek din me mandir gya mai roj waha puja suru karne se pehle pani ka gilaas bhar kar rakh deta tha ...maine puja start ki or hanuman chalisa nd hanuman astak pada muje achanak pani ki awaj aai kal,kal,kal maine jaise hi pani ke bhare gilas ko dekha tho mai shok ho gya gilas ek dam khali tha pani fela bhi nahi tha.......mai kafi dar gya tha itna ki mai bol nhi skta mai seedhe mandir se ghar par gya or maa ke pass baith gya....
Us mandir ke pujari mere pitaji h vo kehte hai ki us mandir se aaj bhi awaj ati hai he ram he ram...

997. MERI ICHHA

MAI SANJAY TIWARI HANUMAN JI KO BAHUT MANTA HUN
UNKI M KHOOB SEWA KARNA CHAHTA HUN PAR IS SANSAR KI MOH MAYA ME PADKAR UNHE TIME NAHIN DE PA RAHA HUN KALIYUG KE IS MAYAVI SANSAR ME MAI CHAHTA TO BAHUT HUN PAR KUCH UNKE LIYE KAR NAHI PAA RAHA HUN
AISA KYUN HO RAHA HAI MERE SATH IS CHEEJ KO M KHUD NAHIN SAMAJH PAA RAHA HUN
HE BAJARANG BALI HE KRIPA NIDHAN AAP JANTE HAIN KI MAINE APNI JINDAGI ME KITNI GALTIYAN KI HAI M AAPSE KUCH CHIPA NAHIN SAKTA PAR AAPSE EK NIVEDAN JARUR KARUNGA MUJHE FIR SE APNE CHARNON ME BITHA LO JAISE PICHLE 2 SAAL PAHLE BITHAYA THA
WO DIL FIR SE LAGA DO APNE CHARNON ME KI M AAPKE PASS BAITHKAR AAPKE HRIDAY ME BASNE WALE PRABHU SHRI RAM AUR MATA JANKI KE SHREE CHARNON ME KHO JAUN
M FIR SE WAHI DUNIYA PANA CHAHTA HUN JIS DUNIYA ME M AAPKE PASS RAHKAR AAPME HI KHO JAYUN MUJHE N PATA CHALE MERI BHOONKH MERI PYASS MUJHE BULA LO APNE CHARNON ME............
JAI SHRI RAM

998. Meri prarthna

Pranam hanuman ji!!Apka main kitna hi aabhar kyun na vyakt karu..kam hi h..jb jb Maine apko sachche dil s pukara apne hmesha meri madad Ki..agar mujse koi galti Hui ho to nadan smjh Kr kshama kijiyega..ek bat apse puchni Thi k Aap muje bhavishya dikhate to ho pr vo muje yad kyun Ni rehta??jb vo samne hota h Tb yad aata h k ha main ise pehle dekh chuki Hu..Aisa lagta h jaise Mai isi jeevan Ko dobara jee rahi Hu..sb kuch Jana pehchana sa lgta h..Kafi bechaini si rehti h.. abnormal cheeje dikhayi deti h jaise dhuye s insan ka banna,ek hi wqt pr ek hi insan Ko 2 jagahon pr dekhna..kya ye sach h ya mera koi waham??meri zindgi ka maksad kya h??mai khud ko janna chahti hu..mai asal m kaun hu??muje sahi Rasta dikhaiye prabhu.. muje or mere parivar k sb logo Ko hmesha swasth or surakshit rakhna prabhu..hm sb Ki sari bimariyon ko dur Kr diijiye.fir se apka dhanyawad...Jai Shri Ram..

Setu Speaks: 
अगर आपको ये अनुभव हो रहे हैं तो आप भाग्यशाली हैं क्योंकि ज्यादातर लोग इस दुनिया को वास्तविक मानकर जीते हैं लेकिन वास्तविकता इससे परे कुछ ओर है | अगर आपको इस दुनिया के भ्रम होने का आभास हो रहा है तो आप भाग्यशाली हैं | निश्चय ही आपके जीवन का उद्देश्य मोक्ष होना चाहिए | उसे कैसे प्राप्त करे उसके लिए हनुमान जी की लीलाओं के अध्याय पढ़ते रहिये |

999. meri prarthna

kal mai Devotee queries section me log ke experience padh rha tha.
maine padha ki Apne bahut se logo ko btaya ki 'apke pchle janm ki kahani ane wale adhyaay me ayegi.. ky mere pichle janma ki koi ghatna ya mere bare me kuch ayega ane wale adhyayo me. Maine charan puja me arpan nhi kiya tha kyuki mujhe pta nhi tha us waqt setuu ke baare me.. pr mai sakshaat hanuman puja me arpan ke liye paise bheje the.

Kripya mujhe ye b btaye ki mujhe aaur kitna intajaar krna hai hanuman ji ke darshan ke liye.
kya hanuman ji mere saath hamesha adrishya roop me mere sath rhte hai.

mujhe atma ke star par jaane ke liye kin kin baato ka khyal rkhna hai.

Mai Hanuman ji ko kahna chahta hu "hey mahabir Hanuman ji mai apko hamesha apne aas
paas mahsus krta hu. mai aur kin kin baato ko dhyaan du. mtlab jaane anjane me mujhse kuch bhul ya koi buri chiz to nahi ho rhi naa. Hanuman ji mai apni poori koshish kr rha hu apke darshan paane ke liye. ap meri raksha kijiyega prabhu. mujhe bhaya, chinta aadi rakshas se bachaiyega. mujhe koi baat btaye jise mai hmesha yaad rakhu.. aur koi ek baat jisse mai sadaiv apke nikat rahu. agar ho sake to btaiye"

.............................
Please meri prarthna ko hanuman ki ke samne prakat kijiye..
aur mere sawal ka jawab hanuman ji se hi chahiye

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्म स्वरूप ,
चरण पूजा की लोग बुक में केवल उन लोगो की कहानी आएगी जिन्होंने इसमें हिस्सा लिया था |

जब आप इन्तजार करने की बजाये हनुमान जी तक पहुँचने तक के सफ़र का आनंद लेने लग जायेंगे तब समझिएगा कि आपने रास्ते पर कदम रख लिया है |

||राम||

1000. meri prathna aur vinay!

Adarniye,
mai 65 sales ka hu.mera matra 34 sal ka ek hi beta than Jose bhagan me utha liya.AB mera koe sahara nahi.AB mai keen a nahi chahta.paw an putra mijhey utha left yahi prathna ha merit

aap byay mai kya karu?

Setu Speaks: 
आपका पुत्र कही नहीं गया है | वह यही पर है | आपको उसे ढूंढना है | उसको ढूँढने चलोगे तो आपको भगवान् भी साक्षात् दर्शन देंगे और आपको आपका पुत्र भी भगवान् के साथ दिखाई देगा |

1001. Meri Sunlo Maruti Nandan

Mujh per bhi karuna karna, mai aaya sharan tumhaari
Mai jode haath khada hun, tere dar ka bana bhikhari
Tum sabse bade bhandari, mai paani tum ho chandan
Hey mahaveer bajarangi, tumhe kahte hai dukh bhanjan

Parbhu rakhsha karo,,,mere baba,,Sankat Mochan

1002. meri zindgi kya hai aur meri zindgi ka maksad kya hai.

kirpya mujhe bataiye ki meri zindgi kya hai. meri zindgi ka main maksad kya hai. mujhe apni zindgi mein kya karna chahiye jisse main bhi apne aap ko pehchan sakun.? maine apni zindgi mei bhut logo ko dekha hai jo apne swarath ke liye kuch bhi katre haim. kayi baarmujhe aisa lagta hain ki main iss lokk mein kya karne ayi hun. mere mata pita meri shadi karna chahte hain kyunki meri shadi ki umar ho chuki hai. par mujhe aur mere mata pita ko jaisa pariwar aur jaisa ladka chahiye wo nahi mil raha jiss se woh aur bhi pareshan hain. kya mera hi aisa karam hain jo mere karan woh preshan hain. main nahi chahti ki wo mere liye pareshan ho. par jab tak wo meri shadi kisi ache ghar mein nahi karte wo pareshan hi rahenge. kya unki pareshani dur hogi. ? kya wo jo chahte hain unko milega.? kirpya mujhe bataiye ki main kya karun jisse main apne jeevan ki sachayi jaan saku

Setu Speaks: 
दिव्य आत्मा ,
आप एक आत्मा हैं जिसने एक शरीर धारण किया है | हर आत्मा का मकसद शरीर धारण के पीछे यहीं होता है कि वह अपने पिछले जन्मों का सारा कर्मों का खाता चुकता करके मुक्ति की और अग्रसर हो | आपके माता पिता की चिंताएं उनके कर्म खाते पर आधारित हैं और आपकी चिंताए आपके कर्म खाते के आधार पर | आप यह सत्य हमेशा ध्यान रखकर जीवन जियेंगे तो हमेशा खुश रहेंगे |
राम |

1003. Methods of performing Hanuman pujan at home.

what are the proper methods which can be used at home to keep away the effect of asurs on our souls and our family?how should we do hanuman puja at home?
please elaborate few mantra and processess which can be performed at home because it is not possible for every devotee to reach settu due to financial and other unavoidable circumstances but every one of us want to reach to hanuman ji.If somebody feels the impact of asurs to greater extent at their native home as i usually feel the negative energies at my native place then what should i apply to nullify or minimise that negative effects?
JAI BAJRANG BALI.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Pooja should be performed at home as per family traditions and as per guidelines of the Guru Parampara with which your family is associated. To nullify effects of Asurrahs, make a HanuMandal or a circle by using a circle of Diyas and making the circle with red thread.

Blessings

1004. Mind disturbance

Dear sir ,

I am really disturbed these days due to some doubts regarding my family , and there are stances where i am feeling betrayed by my own people in whom I have confidence.

kindly guide me what to do.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you want to liberate your soul from the illusions of this world, Gods will create situations to help you realize the truth. And the truth is : Only your soul's relationship with the supreme self (The One God) is real. Everything else is superficial. If you do not want to liberate your soul, and want only the welfare of your body and mind (and not the soul), then say so to Lord Hanuman. He will make your illusions better instead of trying to get you out of them.

Blessings

1005. Mind Disturbance

After reading the reply , i feel I should librate from this body and take blessings from Shree Hanumana . Because he is the supreme of all souls.

Kindly request Lord Hanuman to help me librate from this materialist world and shower his blessings on me.

1006. miracle

I am a student and addicted whiskey and wine byte I have much faith in lord hanuman , 3 weeks ago at Tuesday I started to read hanuman chalisa , after that Tuesday I realized that some invisible power is pushing me on the right path in my life .. after that I started jogging , do workout and slowly slowly go away from my addiction to ciggrette and whiskeys ... now today I'm able to control on my addiction and I know some day I permanently go away from my addictions..
I think all these things is only done by the aashirwaad of lord hanuman...
and plz tell me there is a any way where I can feel lord hanuman I want to feel that limitless power of hanuman Ji
is my ishthadev

1007. A miracle...and a prayer request.
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

"Continued from #49819 ,

Jai Sri Ram and my heart felt obeisance to all those who serve Him and Sri Anjaneya.This May 2015 when I went to my home after the incident happened with the second person who's name is Vijay Srinivasan,when I had written about being cheated,my father gave me something of Hanumanji and told me that Lord Hanuman will fulfill your desire.This person was in my mind and his family members like me very much so his father had asked me to get sweets for him.I returned to my work place after one month.Just before joining I had to go to his house to give sweets to his father but I did not inform him as he had rejected me.

Before going,the previous day I wanted to know whether lord Hanuman is with me and whether the thing which my father gave me was by the Lord's will or not ,I asked Lord Hanuman to show me a miracle when I go to their house the next day.I was worried that I did not inform him and was meeting his parents what may happen.Everything went smooth,he behaved well,just when I was about to leave his house A small monkey from no where came and sat in their doorway...everyone was shocked because they have been living in that house for so many years and never such a thing happened.

Even Vijay repeatedly was asking me how was it possible,I knew what happened but just kept silent.It was a miracle.Thanks to my Lord Sri Ram And His devotee Lord Hanuman.After some days Vijay once again sent me the proposal for marriage which was also a miracle.

But after few days of accepting he rejected me again.He is like a child ,due to his past karmas he lacks understanding and decision making ability also he is not physically not well,But he is a nice person.The astrologers have told.Astrologers have also predicted that he will come back to me. There was no communication for more than a month but the day the astrologer predicted, the very next day he messaged me telling me if marriage did not work out should I not ask him.That was the third miracle.

I cannot change him its only God who can perform miracles.All the above are impossible miracles for me.So I have a prayer request kindly pray for this person so that he will understand me and accept me,I do not have any selfish motive to marry him ,its just that he and his family are very pious people and I want to serve them and take care of them as my parents and his parents have arranged this marriage.All will be blessed by this marriage.

1008. miss
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I'm 17 years old and have had bad experiences from a very young age. They have all brought me closer to you. I was neglected by my dad because I was a girl, then was tortured by my step dad and thats wasn't enough that my own aunt did black magicon me. Due to this I couldn't go to school fr soo long. Why am I telling you all this. You know it all. And I'm not complaining. I'm thanking u because these troubles brought me closer to you as you've always protected me as a fatherly figure. But please tell me what I need to do to achieve moksha in this lifetime. I just want to meet you. Rest my head on your lap and forget everything, all the worries of this illusional world. But at the same time I want to be something so that I can look after my family. How can I achieve this? And how can I balance this illusional and real world?? And how can I stop this negativity (black magic) from affecting my and my family's life?? Please bless me hanuman ji. I just want to stay in your feet and will be looking forward to your darshan. Jai hanuman!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You have to first find out who is this 'me' you are referring to. You will find out that you are a soul which has option to live at many levels.

For example, when you are hungry and eating food fully engrossed in it, you are at the level of body.

When you are trying to find out whether the food is cold/hot, good/bad, you are using your mind hence you are at the level of mind.

When you are judging whether it is right to have so much food when people sleep hungry in this world, you are using your intellect. I.e. you are living at intellect level.

When you keep a small part of your food for a dog or cow or any other animal, you are at the level of Samskara.

When you realize that the one who is eating food is not you, but you are witness of your body having food, then you are at the level of Chiitt or consciousness.

When you realize that you are a soul and all other things (body,mind,intellect etc.) are mounting points where your soul mounts to enjoy an experience, you are at the level of soul.

When you realize that all souls are basically part of one supreme soul, you are at the level of God.

So, you have to realize your true identity.

Then you can deploy your lower levels (body,mind,intellect) in pursuing your materialistic goals, and your higher levels (chitt, Soul) in staying connected with the supreme Lord.

The solution of black magic has already been told to you in another experience.

Blessings


1009. The mistakes and sins- Knowingly and unknowingly
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Dearest Shri Hanuman Ji, All the pure Mathangs, all the devotees , and everyone who is associated with this leela- Saadar Pranaam
Hanumanji Pranaam. I want to begin with the dream which I had in which I saw you in your enormous body . I wonder why were you a bit worried ? I saw you helping all the people in this world in their every little to huge task. Thank you God for being there for everyone.
Also, once i saw a dream in which I was in a huge ocean and wondering how to be out of there and then suddenly a well built man came and swam me out of the water to a safe land. I believe that it was you.
O dear God, I have so much to tell you and write to you but my mind is so little to express it. But you are no stranger to my inside out, I know you know where I m coming from. I pray to you with folded hands to help me and guide me. All the negativities surrounding me - Physically, mentally and financially, please help me to be out of it. But not to forget I realise time and again how blessed I am . I want to thank You for everything.
Jai shri Ram, Jai SiyaRam, Jai Shri Hanuman, Jai Mata Ki


1010. MOKHSHA
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

When shall I get the "Moksha". How do I know that Karma I am doing is righteous and shall lead to Moksha. Morover, when shall I get the opportunity to meet my Aradhya, Guru & everything in my life.? Please if possible answer my quarries.
"JAI SHREE RAM, JAI BAJRANGBALI"

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Atma Gnan leads a soul to Moksha. Make Lord Hanuman your Guru and read every incident which took place where He visited Mathangs. He is Guru of Mathangs. He came there to impart them BrahmaGanan. Every incident and every word spoke there is Lord Hanuman's Leela to take them towards Atma Gnan. Read every chapter as we post them here. Lord Hanuman will impart Atma Gnan and give your His Darshan.

Blessings

1011. Moksa as described in Setuu page of Hanuman & Mathangs
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Thank you so much for these descriptions of the immortal Rama-bhakta Hanuman who appeared to his great devotees the Mathang tribe. Every chapter contains such deeply touching episodes, that I'm at times sheading tears, being totally moved by the beauty and purity of the story. However, in this Chapter 4, I reconized something I can't fully agree with. That's why I wish to clarify this issue now. I am a devotee of Radha-Krishna, and our Guru Parampara teaches in our temples all around India that Moksha is not an auspicious achievement to any soul - and it's not the topmost perfection of our existence ...
Rather, our scriptures - like Bhagavad-gita and Srimad-Bhagavatam - teach that the ultimate perfection is to enter the eternal abode of God in His various locations in the spiritual world. So how am I to believe that Hanuman would be only aware of an inferior level of perfection such as Moksha ? It seems quite strange to me, and therefore I would like to ask through you to Hanuman, what is his answer to this question.
To make my view point even more clear, I wish to add that our Guru Parampara - Brahma Madhva Gaudiya Sampradaya - has a lineage of divine masters since thousands and thousands of years, all the way to the dawn of Creation ... We learn from them that those who worship Sri Sri Sita-Rama - just like the divine Rama-bhakta Hanuman - will go to Ramaloka in the spiritual world, whereas devotees of Radha-Krishna enter the divine abode of Radha-Krishna, known in the Vedic scriptures as Krishnaloka, or Goloka Vrindavan.
The milk ocean being the source of souls and the place where they would all have to return after fulfilling their material desires in this world of Samsara, is not a worthy goal to be aimed at, as far as all our eternally liberated & fully God-realized Gurus teach, including Lord Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, who is the most recent Avatara in this world. Kindly comment or reply to this, because everything else in your presentation seems completely authentic to me, except this detail. I would highly appreciate your kind answer to me, so I am waiting for you to ask from Hanuman - if possible - directly and personally.
Please kindly forgive me in case you don't find my question appropriate, but this all is about some certain divine truths that are not arising from my own mind but from the Vedic scriptures that contain no mistakes but are eternally perfect revelation of ever-lasting truth, and from our Gurus who have been teaching this same solid wisdom to millions and again millions of great souls since the beginning of Time. So I'm only repeating their infallible and ever-true message, that has an infinite power to deliver all in this universe..

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You should follow only one Guru. If the Guru you are following has helped you evolve to the level of soul consciousness, then follow Him with full devotion. Every Guru has His/Her own terminology and way of showing the highest truth. If you can write or describe something, it is not the highest truth. It is only a ladder to the highest truth. The highest truth is to be experienced, not to be described. At earlier stage, a Guru injects some information into the mind of disciple. That information's job is not to sit in the mind of disciple just like any other piece of information. Rather the information given by guru flushes out other pieces of so called "learning" as acquired from childhood. Once that is flushed out, the Guru starts showing the highest truth to disciple. The highest truth does not read like "This is that. That is this. This is what happens. And that is why it happens and so on...". No. This is just a preliminary information which varies with Guru. One Guru may use different terminology, another may use another terminology. You are at preliminary stage. Do not confuse yourself with different terminology.

By the way, in Vedas or Vedantas there is no mention of "Ram Loka" or "Krishna Loka". All these terms are derived very recently. If you are following this terminology, stick to your Guru. Do not confuse yourself with references of Vedas and Vedanta. When you devote yourself to a Guru, you have to trust him fully. Why do you need crutches of false references to Vedas and Vedanta? Only it is enough, "My Guru says this." full stop. That shows your trust and devotion in your Guru.

Follow One Guru and dedicate yourself fully to Him. Do not stray away from that.

Blessings

1012. MOKSH
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

JAI SHREE RAM - JAI SHREE HANUMAN. PL GIUDE ME SO THAT I DO NOT COMMIT ANY SIN IN THE LIFE. MY FAMILY MEMBERS ARE NOT SATISFIED WITH ME. BE IT MY FATHER, MY WIFE, MY BROTHER, MY SISTERS AND MY CHILDREN. IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO KEEP ALL OF THEM HAPPY AND SATISFIED. MY BROTHER IS NOT GOING ON THE RIGHT PATH AND MY FATHER SEEMS TO SUPPORT HIM. MY WIFE IS AGAINST HELPING AND SERVING THEM AS RENDERING HELP AND SERVICE TO THEM WILL BE AT THE COST OF MY ENTIRE PERSON. THEY DO NOT APPRECIATE THE CONCERN I HAVE FOR ALL. ALL OF THEM ARE LIMITED TO THEIR OWN NEEDS, DESIRES, LUST AND WORLD. PLEASE HELP ME TO ATTAIN PEACE OF MIND, LORD HANUMAN'S TRUE BHAKTI AND ULTIMATELY MOKSH.

THANK YOU.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
Make Lord Hanuman your Guru. He will guide you to peace and Moksha. Read every word spoken by Him when He came to Mathangs. You will one day have His Darshan.
Blessings


1013. Moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Wanted to know why there are so many religions so many Gods when there is only One GOD. I Believe all Gods are one.
Lord Hanuman is there anyway i can see you.
Please bless all the living,non living,small,big everything in the Universe.
Helps us all to get Moksha.
Please accept my Pranam and Love.

Thank you for your reply :)

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Take example of a sea. If 10 people dive into sea, they may come up with 10 different things from the sea bed. They may have 10 different descriptions of the seabed. Somebody who has come up with a stone may say that there are only stones. Somebody who has come up with a fish may say that there are only fishes. But the fact is that they all have dived into the same sea. Their description may differ but the sea is common between them. Whichever religion you follow, you will experience the same God. your description of God may vary, which is perfectly alright.

Blessings


1014. Moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Chapter 4 padhne ke baad mere man mein ek prashna aaya ki muktisagar means moksha jaha atmaye ek vashp ki tarah vilin rehti h jaha unki sari ikchhaye poori ki jati hai to jb unki sari ikchhaye poori hoti h to aisi kon si ikchhaye h jinhe poora krne vo nashvar lok m jana chahti hain aur jb muktisagar hi un atmao ka param lakshya hota hai to vo vaha se jana kyu chahti hain aur yadi vaha unki sari ikchhaye poori hoti hain to unke man m nashvar sansar jane ki ikchha kyu prakat hoti h.. Jai shri raam

Setu Speaks: 
सागर में लहरें क्यों उठती हैं , अगर इस प्रश्न का उत्तर ढूँढने चलेंगे तो आपको उत्तर मिलेगा कि चंद्रमा के गुरुत्वाकर्षण बल के कारण लहरें उठती हैं | किसी चीज का कारण ढूंढना मस्तिष्क का स्वभाव है और मस्तिष्क भूलोक में राज्य करता है | विष्णुलोक की घटनाओं को समझने के लिए मस्तिष्क पर निर्भर नहीं रहा जा सकता | फिर भी आप कारण जानना चाहेंगे आत्माओं के विष्णुलोक से पुनः निकलकर मरणलोक में आने का तो वो कारण हैं ब्रह्मा जी | ब्रह्मा जी की शक्ति विष्णुलोक में ठीक वैसे ही काम करती है जैसे चंद्रमा की शक्ति भूलोक में काम करती है | चन्द्रमा भूलोक के समंदर में लहरें पैदा करता है तो ब्रह्मा जी विष्णुलोक में लहरे पैदा करते हैं | विष्णुलोक में उठने वाली लहरों का नाम आत्मा है जो उठने के बाद मरणलोक में प्रस्थान कर जाती हैं |

1015. moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

om sri rama jayam.
This is a query regarding the 6 th chapter. At the end of the chapter it is written "out of the souls 99 lakh will get moksha 33 crores will become surrah of next kalpa and rest will become assurrah". my query is that is this number will be same through out the ending of all kalpas ? or will ther be a chance for the assurah to get transformed into surah or attain moksha??? like the same way will the surrah attain moksha???? or the number is just a value to make known that there will be souls attaing moksha, and transforming into surah& asurah .
jai sri hanuman

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The Surrahs and Asurrahs have no chance of transformation in between the Kalpa. They will be liberated only at the end of Kalpa when Lord Kalki comes. Then the souls of this Kalpa will turn into Surrahs and Asurrahs of next Kalpa as per their Karma.

Blessings

1016. Moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Hi.. I want to know does every soul gets Moksha?? How many lives does one soul have before it gets dissolved completely or gets Moksha ??

Is there any way I can know About my previous birth?

I 've always been love starving since birth and don't find to peace anywhere. I have been cheated in love. I was a non believer in God because I could not find any answers for my suffering. One day something unusual happened. There was a Lord Hanuman photo in the gym i used to go.. I was feeling very be that day feeling helpless and tears in my eyes.. when I looked up suddenly I saw Lord Hanuman's pic and felt something inside. Like someone gave me the strength . I have never been the same after that. I became devotee of Lord Hanuman. It has given me strength to move forward. I still struggle with my problems and wants to know some answers. Sometimes I feel all this could be related to my previous lives deeds .. please reply!

Jai SriRam!! Jai Hanuman!!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have read chapter 6, you would know that at end of Kaliyuga only 99 Lakh souls will get Moksha. Rest all will become Surrahs and Asurrahs. They will remain so for next Kalpa and then they will be liberated. However that is the number of souls who will be blessed by Lord Kalki. If you get supreme knowledge before Lord Kalki's arrival, you shall get Moksha too. There are many souls who have got Moksh in past and everyday many souls go to Muktisagara after death.

There is a reason why we don't remember anything about our past lives. If you get to know about your past life, your present life will become so horrible that you will end it. Sages tell a bit about past life to a soul only and only when it is required for healing purpose. You do not require that. You are a blessed soul who has just now turned to move towards Moksha. You at least got introduced to Lord Hanuman in this birth. You will slowly realize your soul and proceed towards Moksha. :Love your own soul and love the supreme soul. Everything else is just an illusion.

Blessings

1017. moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

how can i attain moksha in kaliyuga? can anyone plz tell me in detail how lord hanuman look??? & can anyone pllllllllzzzzzzzzzz tell me how kalki avter look? how lord bramvha,narayan & shiva look?.how is god voice sound? what is inside in lord narayan body??? how tridevi look like???? lord shiva hold moon in his head then is the whole sky is lord shiva's head???? what color is lord narayan eyes is it blue or black or another color??? do lord bramvha is really old looking???? is lord jesus is sun of lord narayan or shiva???? or brambha?????? how does god smell??? did god ever get angry? if someone is heavy sinnner do god still will love that persone????? if someone is thinking very much unholy dirty but he cant controll his thought, he really dont want to think about that but still is thinking than will god & goddess will be very angry in him????? why lord narayan,shiva & bramvha madittae??? whom they maditate???? when lord bramvha died what happen to him after he die???
ma adi sakti did not gave birth to me but will she still love me like he own cild????? plzzzzz answer.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

The mind seeks identifications like color, sound, shape etc. What the mind seeks is illusionary knowledge.

You must realize that you are a soul and you must seek the supreme knowledge which leads you to supreme Lord. The illusionary knowledge will only distance you from God,

Blessings

1018. Moksha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

As chitta had rebirth and and this whole world is a illusion... Where person forgets his reality and gets stuck in this illusion..
Can you tell what kind of knowledge can enable us to get moksha????

Setu Speaks: 
The supreme knowledge which is enshrined in the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas.

The supreme knowledge which Lord Hanuman imparts to the Mathangs every 41 years,

The supreme knowledge which is imparted by a Guru to disciples in any Guru Parampara.

The supreme knowledge which stirred your soul when you read chapter 1 but then the Asurrahs again took control of you and you couldn't gather patience and sincerity to read all the chapters.

Blessings

1019. Moksha - Before Experience
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

jab meine aapne mitra se setuu.org ke baare me sunna to us din mere jeevan ki sabse badi uthal puthal chal rahi thi. me office to aaya tha pur mera dhyan mere toote hue ghar aur bikhre hue rishto pur kendret tha. me aapne dost ki baat ko dhyan se na sunte hue bus ha me ha mila raha tha. aachanak pata nahi mene pucha aap jo website bata rahe hai usko mein mobile pur open karta hu aap naam bataye. website open ki gayi. opening page read kiya. facebook se login hua. chapter 1 aaya. interest increase hua. read karna shuru kya. thodi der me hi khatam karke next chapter 2 pur pahucha. bus uske baad se dimag ruk sa gaya bus ek hi hulchal. hanumaan saach me hai. woh sabki sunte hai. aur mere jeevan me jo tensions chal rahi hai woh zaruru suni jayegi. bus is vishwas ke saath chapter 3 & 4 complete kiya. ek alag sa sakoon tha. jise sabdo me nahi likha ja sakta.

next day saturday tha. ghar ke mandir ke samne baitha. dhyan hanumaan ji ka lagaya. sachi tasveer samne aaye unki. unse saak-saat baat shuru hui. me ander hi ander hairen tha ye kaisa chamatkaar hai.

ye ek aaisa ehsas tha jaise kisi ko moksh milne ke waqt hota hoga. sukhad ehsaas.

maine aapni peera-dard hanumaan ji ko bataya. turant jawab aaya, "abhi badal dunga sab kuch - abhi ke abhi 100 hanumaan chalise shuru kar"

bus phir kya tha. hanumaan ji ke naam ki jot jalayi, ghee dala, aur agarbatti jalayi, aur haath me rudraksh mala le li - shuru kar diye hanumaan chalise.

agar batti khatam ho usse pehle mein nai laga deta. aur jab tak 100 hanumaan chalise chale jot me ghee dalta gaya.

mujhe yaad hai 11:25 am pur maine isse shuru kiya tha aur exact 4:25 pm pur samapti hui.

pur kahani to ab shuru hui hai, jo me share karne ja raha neeche:

chalise chal rahe the: me thak raha tha pur ye vichar baar baar aa raha tha ke ye saakshat hanumaan ji ka aadesh hai, isse har halat me karna hi hai. so, mala aadhi hi hui thi, phone baja. ye phone usi ka tha jisne me naraz tha aur uski galtiyo ko sudharna chahta tha. mera dil dhakane laga. mene paath ke bheech me hi phone utha liya, ye maan kar ke ye chamatkaar to hanumaan ji ne hi kiya hai, kyu ke kabhi bhi uska call nahi aaya tha. baat hui, share nahi kar sakta isliye sorry. mene jo hanumaan se parathana ki thi theek waise hi us insaan ka dil pigal raha tha. aapni galtiyo ka ehsaas uski aawaz me dikh raha tha.

mene phone cut kiya aur roo pada. mann ne ronna shuru kiya, aur mann bolne laga: hanumaan ji aap hai sach me hai. bus rooh se pukarne ki baat hai.

dosto, mene jaap khatam kiya, bheech me 2 baar call aaya. me samajh chuka tha hanumaan ji ne ne agar baat mani hai to iska matlab us insaan me sudhar ki zarurat thi, isi liye maani.

us din se meri gadi patri pur aane lagi. aur aaisa anubhav hota hai jaise hanumaan ji aang sang hi hai.

mera ek question hai jo mathang baba se hai: me chahta hu ke ye baba tak pahuchaya jaye aur iska answer agar mil jaye to mere moksh me dawar khul jaye??

question is:

upar mene aapna experiance jo bhi share kiya usme hanumaan ji ne meri madad ki, aur sach me ki pur us time pur aaise anek bhagat honge jinko madad ki zarurat hogi, aur unhone bhi sacche dil se hanumaan ji ko pukara hoga...to meri pukaar itni instant kyu suni gai...ya ye samajh lo meri pukaar hi kewal kyu suni gayi...kya baki logo ka dukh nahi suna gaya hoga???

dhanyavaad

Kapil Biala

Setu Speaks: 
पवित्र आत्मा ,

जैसा कि पांचवे अध्याय में हनुमान जी ने उर्मी को बताया , दूरियां शरीर महसूस करता है | आत्मा के लिए दूरी का कोई महत्त्व नहीं है | शारीरिक रूप से एक भक्त संसार के इस कोने में है तो दूसरा दुसरे कोने में लेकिन हनुमान जी के सामने सब कुछ ऐसे घटित हो रहा है जैसे सब कुछ उनके सामने ही है | हनुमान जी से संपर्क तभी होता है जब भक्त शरीर से ऊपर उठकर आत्मा के स्तर पर उठ जाता है और सभी आत्माएं हनुमान जी के बिलकुल सामने हैं | आत्मा को "दूरी" और "समय" का बंधन नहीं है | यह बंधन केवल देह पर है |

|| राम ||

1020. Moksha - How to break the web while in Human form
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai sankatmochan Hanuman. Jai Shri Ram

When even the Maharishi with his supreme knowledge could not break the web of Body, Atma and Aura. How Hanumanji we can practice the karma and desires so that we move towards the Bhrama, Shiv or Vishnu loka and the mukti Sagara in the end where we feel no I, no karmas and desires.

Do explain and show the path. As we are not the body but the atman and now with this chapter we have to leave the Atman ( I am attama)....we are just part of the Lord Vishnu and we need to have union with him.

Jai Jai Shri Ram....Jai Hanuman

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Supreme knowledge is the only way.

Blessings

1021. Moksha for a soul without a mortal body
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Swamy, Should a soul necessarily take mortal births to attain Moksha from either Vishnu loka or
Shiva loka or Brahma loka? Can't a soul get self realization without a mortal body?

Swamy, I am also tired of my karma. Please make this journey simple. I cannot handle any more of what I have been going through. I am trapped in this web Swamy.. plz take me to my Lord. Plz ask him to talk to me when he comes as Lord Kalki

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Chapter 13 answers your question.

Blessings

1022. Moksprapti kitni sahaz he aaj me anubhav kr sakta hu
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

He mahodya,
Me ek Sadhak hu sant asharamji bapuji ki maine bachpan me Mantradiksha li he. Lagatar do din se maine aapke Setu ke madhyam se prabhu hanumanji ke 12 adhyay padhe.
Aur me aapse kah nhi paa raha hu muzme itni possitive energy aa gai he ki muze ab ye sansar,sukh,dukh me koi bhi asakti nahi lag rahi .ab mera lakshy sirf moksh prapti hi he.
Aur me ab ye jaan chuka hu ki ye kitna saral he.
Me atma hu sharir nhi.jaise hum purane kapde fek dete he aur naye kapde dharan krte he aise hi atma jirn sharir ko chod deti he aur naya janm leti he ye me jaan gaya hu.
Lekin me kb tk janmta aur marta rahunga ,
Ab me es janam maran ki chakkrse chuttna chahta hu aur sada ke liye mukt hona chahta hu.
Me aapka bahut abhari hu ke apne mere sadhna marg me muze shayog kiya.me aapka hradypurvak abhari hu.
muze prbhu hanumanji ke Darshan mere gurudev ke kripa ashirwad se honge .aisi me asha karta hu .
dhanywad,
Kalpesh shelke.

1023. Money Getting Lost Automatically
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai Shree Ram,

ME and My family has performed Sakshat Hanuman Puja last year.

We are experiencing an unbelievable experience.

The money which we kept in our wallet are getting lost automatically, sometimes its 100/200/500/1000 rs.
even if we keep it under closed watch its goes away.
This thing has happened first to me, then my younger brother and then my dad.
My younger brother "Vyoam" even lost his ring one, but ring came back to him after several weeks automatically.

Someone told me it might be due to some bad planetary positions so we donated food to peoples on Saturday in temple.
But didn't got the correct solution why it happened.
I am not able to understand this behavior, that's why i am writing to you.

Please suggest what is/was the issue, is it some planetary position, or some Hanuman Leela.
And what should we do further now.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

We could not see any divine OR beyond-sense link behind these incidences. The reason behind this is a worldly one hence has to be found out by you only by using your 5 senses.

1024. Mr
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I failed in my Final C A exams. I had read well and did not expect to fail.
When I failed I had no desire to write again. A good friend came along andtold me to read SUNDERAKANDAM. He told me that Hanumanji will come and write the exam. I passed the exam. my preparation was poor , yet I passed, Hanumanji wrote the exam for me, and I passed. even today when some one is in difficulty I tell them to read SUNDARAKANDAM.

1025. Mr. Prasad
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I have number of dreams till date in last 10-15 years since when I understand the meaning of it. Many of the dreams I saw were came true in near future and nearly all of them were good dreams.

I am still unable to remember any dream or any life event that has caused me any casualty.
But I do remember one moment happened with me in sleep twice (as far as I remember)

It is when I got asleep, I do not remember whether I saw any dream or not, but when awakened, I called name of Lord Vishnu as "RAM" or "JAI SHRI RAM" in loud voice in Manavloka. It is just moment prior to when I called name of Lord vishnu, I feel somebody have had hold me tight on my bed and my throat frozen. That's what I remember.

I do not understand the meaning of this. Will anyone please help me to identify the meaning behind this blessings of Lord RAM and Lord Hanuman????

Also, I would like to mention here that, My bed room in home, where I live today also is blessed with the birth of VANARA on the day of "Hanuman Jayanthi". I believe Lord Krishna and Hanuman more than my soul.
They are the only creatures in this whole universe. May both of them bless this universe with lots of blessings..........

JAY SHRI RAM!!!!!!
JAY SHRI KRISHNA!!!!!
JAY HANUMAN!!!!!!

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You are a blessed soul. You don't need to try to fit sublime experiences of your soul in the limited dimensions of your mind. Mind is not large enough to fit the divine experiences of soul.

Blessings

1026. Mr S Ramachandran
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

When ever I chant the name of Hanumanji, I get some relaxation of mind. He keeps my wishes fulfilled and I am at peace. But some of my kith and kin do suffer when their fortunes fluctuate and the same disturbs my mind. How do I help them or keep my mind UN affected?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You must know difference between attachment and love. When you are attached to someone, there is a two side connection. Negativity from their life will flow into you and ruin positivity of your life. Positivity of your life will flow into their life but get cancelled with their negativity.

On the other hand, love is only about giving. You will give your positivity to them if you are not attached to them. Only if you love them without attachment. Learn to detach yourself and have divine love towards them. Positivity of your life then certainly bring positivity in their life.

Blessings.

1027. Mr Trijendra Vikram Srinet
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I belong to Ayodhya "Birthplace of Lord Rama" and came to know about this site from Social Media. After reading the details and all Chapter I feel very blessed and devoted to Lord Hanuman, resulting to start doing Fasting on every Tuesday.

I am waiting to read more Chapters and learn more thing related to practical life. I have refered this site to my closed one and they feel knowledged after reading the Chapters.

Thank you.

Regards
Trijendra Vikram Srinet

1028. Mr Vijay
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai Sriram .jai hanuman

My journey to this site is very surprising.I am thrilled to read the Leela's of LORD HANUMAN.
It changed the way I perceive this material world and I really feel that I am closer to hanuman ji than ever before.

My recent experience is on the evening of 7th August 2017. It was lunar eclipse and I was trying to get the dharbalu to place in the house to negate the effect of Chandra Graham. My wife is very strict about getting the dharbalu and she want me to try them on that evening. I tried in near by temples expecting dharbalu,but all the temples are closed as they usually do before any Grahanam.
I prayed to lord Sriram to help me in getting dharbalu and went near the Hanuman temple which was little far from my house and to my surprise there is one old man who seems to be getting ready to close the temple. I along with my 10 year old son ,tried our best to reach him before he could close.Finally we got them. Hanuman Ji will not let his devotees down. I thanked him for helping me.

Jai Sri Hanuman.....

1029. Mrs. Priyanka
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Pranam to lord Anjani Suta - Maruti. I could feel the long tail with the help of which Matang rushi could reach the top of the heal and could see bigger /est form of lord hanuman. May he provide all of us great amount of "Aadhyatmik Chetna" to attain moksha in this incarnation.

-Jai Shri Krishna

1030. Mrs vibhuti panchal
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

How to forgive people who did bad to us. I try a lot but then again I start feeling bad and feel like cursing those people. I know it is not good that is why I want to learn how to forgive people and also myself if I have done wrong to anyone.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Do it for yourself, not for them. Best punishment you can give them is to get them out of your life, your mind. If you keep cursing them, they will stay with you and influence your course of future. Forgive them and become indifferent to them so that new good people can replace them in your life.

If you are not able to get them out of your mind, you must realize that you are not a mind. You are a soul. Let mind does it's cursing until it consoles itself. But you, as a soul, should stay a mere witness to this emotional outrage of your mind.

Blessings

1031. MUJH PAR HANUMAT KRIPA
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Hanuman ji mere kuldev hai, aur unme meri bahut shardha hai. Kareeb 12 saal pehle in 2002 mere chote bete ka accident ho gaya tha.Doctor ne kaha ki ya to ye bachega nahi ya pagal ho javega,to main kyoki hanuman bhakt hu isliye maine hanuman ji se prayer ki aur kaha ki yadi maine jeevan me kisi ka bura kiya ho to isko mere paapo ka punishment de dena aur isko utha lena aur yadi jeevan me kisi ka bura nahi kiya to isko bilkul ok kar dena.prayer ka asar dusre di n se hi dikhna shuru ho gaya aur doctor ne third day declare kar diya ki ye bilkul ok hai sirf operation karna padega. operation huva aur uske head me 64 stiches lage , face me andar 6 plates aur 26 screws lage aur kuch din me wo ok ho gaya.Ab hanuman ji ki kripa se wo bilkul ok hai koi defect nahi hai.main every tuesday aur saturday ko sundar kand ka path karta hu aur kabhi kabhi 1008 hanuman chalisa ka path bhi kar leta hu. Jai bajrangbali- jai sri ram.

1032. Mujhe rasta nahi dikhai de raha
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I feel that in front of my eyes there is a huge wall or invisible wall so that I cannot move ahead on right path. I am very much confused. I did not see or cannot imagine the correct way. Please lord help me to come out from this situation. I am full of dirty imaginations habits etc.I canot see method of purification. Even for a small job I am fully confused and feel alone and feel fear. O my lord, show me the right path.I cannot interpret much but I hope you got me please hey antaryami help me and pardon me for my sins. I am in middle or surrounded by my issues. Help me to resolve those issues also.

Setu Speaks: 
Take care of these 4 things-
(1) Make sure you have a deep desire to reach goals.
(2) Make sufficient efforts required to fulfill that desire otherwise your soul will just go to Swapan Lok and fulfill those deep desires. It will never become reality here in this world.
(3) In order to get help of Lord Hanuman in removing obstacles, never allow demons of "fear" and "worry" etc make room in your heart and mind. If these demons remain there, you will not get help of Lord Hanuman. Because that would indicate that you prefer demons over Lord Hanuman.
(4) Keep your prayer simple. Just ask, "O Lord, fulfill my wishes." Do not bring your family, society and world into your wish. Otherwise their Karma will also affect you. Just keep it between you and Lord. Nobody else. Everyone related to you will automatically get fruits when your wish gets fulfilled.

1033. Muktisagara and souls
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Namaskar, Sai Ram,
I have been reading all the chapters posted on Setuu, and narrate them to my mother as well. We have had many divine experiences after reading the chapters. In many of the chapters, Mukti Sagara or the Ocean of Milk, on which Lord Vishnu reclines on the eternal Adi Shesha is described. It is described as a place that contains everything to fulfill all the desires of a soul. But how exactly is Mukti Sagara ? What lies below it ? Is it a kind of Loka or is it something different ?
In many scriptures, Adi Shakti is said to reside in a divine Loka called Akshara Dhama, where all Goddesses, kinnaris, yakshinis, gandharvis, also live. Where is this Akshara Dhama then ? Is it even above Vaikuntha and Mukti Sagara ?

Pranams,
Jai Shri Ram, Jai Bajrangbali Hanumaan !

Jai Sai Maa.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul.

Chapter 13 and 14 answer your question. VishnuLoka is just another reality. You have to go beyond all realities in order to get Mukti.

What lies above and below depends on who is watching. The observation changes according to the location of the observer. VishnuLoka lies beyond perceptions of space-time. Therefore dont try to imagine it as per your understanding of the space-time world where you are right now.

Names and terms can be confusing. Don't rely on names, rely on experience. Your soul should be able to experience a Loka. Names don't matter. Many Gurus give many names to same reality/Loka. Follow one Guru or path. If you are considering Lord Hanuman as your Guru, only use the terms and names used by Lord Hanuman in these chapters.

Blessings

1034. My agony after my husband's death
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I am pleased to be with u Devine souls my Anusha should pass in the viva. Secondly My Deepa should get Ph.D soon .My Dadu should behave well in school well n study well. My Harshini should eat well be healthy .My worries should dissolve about house. N monetary affairs Arundathi ' worries about her sons should be solved Hey Hanuman help me to be like mathangs

1035. My Anxiety !
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

..Continued from #507135..

Param Pujya Mahabali Wisest Prabhu Hanumanji,

I feel very much blessed to read what you said. But my worldly experience has changed from no worry, and carefree to anxiousness about everything. I hope all will be fine, Anjaney. Please Guide, Is this my test or past life's mistakes ? Or darkness before awakening ?

You are my Guru & Guide in life. My life has touched a parasmani that you have replied to my message. I am Dhanya being your Bhakta ! I am constantly praying to you ! Help me and my family and with my daughters' marriage !

Kindly let me know if I am going wrong somewhere !

Sashtang Pranams.

1036. My birth
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Earlier, i was not sincere devotee of lord vishnu n lakshmi n now my devotion n spiritually turns towards lord vishnu n lakshmi. After the member of setu Asia, i am slowly becoming the devotee of Lord Hanuman. I feel no human being n also from my mother side or in law side support or help us, except my husband. Completely dependent on God n our hard work .do not want to get help from anybody. Definitely for anything happens in our life, all bcoz of purva janma karmas. What was my karma before n would also like to know the reason of my birth? I feel definitely there is some spiritual connection with Lord vishnu, Lakshmi devi n Hanuman in my previous birth. Please explain my soul connection with Lord Hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Purpose of birth for every soul is to settle old Karma accounts so that it can move towards Mukti or Moksha. If you do all your Karma with the awareness that you are a soul here to settle your Karma accounts, you shall be guided by divine forces to do the right thing.

You do not need to know specific incidences of your past life as they are revealed only when they are required to be revealed.

Blessings

1037. My Certificates
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I am applying for a Masters program in the US and I want my original certificates to be sent from India latest by December 15. My parents are trying hard to send it so that the deadline is not missed, but things are getting delayed. I pray to Lord Hanuman to help speed up the process of me receiving my documents so that I can go ahead with my application.

I am dedicating my application and work to my friend Dina, who is suffering from a rare incurable form of cancer. She is a very kind person and a good friend of mine.

1038. My Childhood experience about Hanuman G.
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai Shri Ram Mera Naam Vishal Pathak Hai abhi meri Umar 27 saal hai ye baat mene bhaot kam logo ke sath hi share ki hai.. aj yaha post kar raha hu. ye baat karib tab ki hai jab me 6 ya 7 ya usse bhi kam ka raha hounga. mujhe bahot tej bukhar tha month yahi koi jun se august ke beech ka tha me charpai per chat pe apne baramde me leta tha tabiyat khrab hone ki wajah se chadar odh rakhi thi. achanak meri nazarr asman me padi to mene dekha ki ek pardarshi arkriti hanuman ji ki tarah akash me bhraman kr rahi thi,, mene apne chote bhai ko bhi dikhaya tha usne bhi mehsoos kiya or dekha mene ye bat ma papa ko batai hum dono ne dekha tha.. Shayad bachpan tha isliye esa sambhav hua warna me itna bhagyashali nahi ki Hanuman G mujhsee darsham dete. Bus yahi thi meri ek kahani Jai Shri Ram. Jai Bajrang Bali.

1039. My daughter
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

My daughter is very intelligent and grasps everything very fast. I am doubtful what would her future be. Right now she is 3.5 years old and has high aspirations of becoming an IAS Officer, so should I make her studies in that field or some other field.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Let her reach at least teenage. Then let her decide for herself. Respect the fact that she is a soul and she has her own destiny. Do not put baggage of your Karma-Desire on her destiny.

Blessings

1040. ...My Dear GOD!
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

...the very first time, I heard my inner prayer was the following sloka...

असाध्य साधक स्वामिन असाध्य तव किंवद |
राम दूत कृपा सिंधो मत्कार्यं साध्यप्रभो ||

This was in the year 2001, I remember reciting this sloka as a child. My life had taken a lot of turns and 2001 was a very very important phase in my life. I was searching for a lot of answers in life. I felt purposeless, I felt useless and at that point in time was seriously contemplating suicide. This evening, I clearly remember praying, begging that there would be some hint, some indication that my life would be OK.

And I heard the above prayer. I didn't even know what it really meant and asked my friend/spiritual brother its meaning. When he gave me the meaning, I immediately cried and understood that my life was going to start becoming better.

In a weird way, it felt as if, in the lowest point of my life, I felt like Lord Hanuman extended His grace to me. I am so grateful for that evening. I still remember it so clearly. Even now, when I think about that moment, I cry.

My life has been generally OK since. But, I spiritual life has twists and turns. I have made many mistakes. Just like Baba Matang says in Chapter 2, my circumstances drive a lot of things in my life. I wish to return to India and start over. I'm getting married next month. I wish to have the Lord's Darshan sometime and simply fall at His feet.

Few days back, when I deep in meditation, I had a vision of a Monkey applying tilak on my forehead. There is a part of me that believes this is only because of Lord Hanuman. At times, I feel that I am forcefully imagining such visions. I would like see HIM for real just once.

Even now, as I type this text, I feel the vibrations of my room have changed so much. Please Lord, I wish to see You. Please purify me enough so I can see YOU. Please Please Please.

1041. My Destiny
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I have always wanted to do good to others in whatever way I can.I have helped people to get jobs and also lent money to tide over their temporary problems.Many people do not return the money I give them but some do. I want to help more people but I do not have the resources to do so at the present.Will this situation change? Will I have the resources in the near future. I also worry about my daughters future.Her job,marriage etc.My own personal needs are taken care of so I don't need to worry about that. I also do not want to put others into any trouble for my sake in my advanced age in future. At present Jaison has taken 7-8 lacs from me and Ramanan 5 lacs. Will I get this back? I will need this for my daughter's wedding. She has found a match for herself.Is this match ok?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Before helping anyone else, your duties are towards your family. Be assertive in order to fulfill your responsibilities. Act according to your Dharma, you do not need to know your destiny.

Blessings

1042. My doubt
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

How should I leave everything in God's hands? Is there a way of doing this without having any doubts. If so, then can one experience that everything is indeed in God's hands?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

You have to do Karma with your body-mind and let your soul rest in God at the same time. These are two ends of your personality- at one end you have body-mind and at another end you have soul. Let your soul connect with God and let your body-mind connect with the world and do it's work.

Blessings

1043. my doubts
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

For me every god is same,for me whatever happens in my life is for a reason.Accoding to me god loves me very much and so do i,i have seen many form of god in my dream,i have even seen lord hanuman in my dream but he did not speak my question is that why is so many bad things happning to me i have a very big goal in my life which is not exactly for me ormy betterment and i belive that it is not my wish it is god's wish but to fulfill that i need my partner whitout whom i can not function properly already god has told me that it is mine but still it has been many years but my situation is getting worse day by day i daily ask god to help he has shown me mypath but still wanted to know why i am fasing all these problems?

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

(1) Do not assume things on behalf of God. Most likely you have built two compartments in your mind. One one compartment you have written "Me" and on another compartment you have written "God" and you are stuck in the interaction of these compartments. Realize your soul. Once you realize your soul, you don't need to imagine God or God's wish whatever that may be.

(2) Simplify your desires. Because of Kaliyuga, there are already complications. Do not add your own complications to that. "If my this desire is fulfilled then only I can fulfilll my bigger desire", This is a complicated desire. Simplify your desires and work on things on your hand in present. Do not dwell in future.

Blessings

1044. My Dream
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I am very much attracted towards a painting having lord rama, sita and lakshmana. I brought a frame of it with deep gratitude and immense joy. One day, i got an unforgettable dream in which lord hanuman came to my home. In that dream, I have shown the frame to him. He felt very happy and given me a nice hug and teased me. Later, I fed him with some eatables while he was sitting on the steps.

Thank god, I came to realize that I have also some position in your brave heart.

1045. My Dream
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I am not in touch of husband since last 2 years. Whenever I try to contact him it always ends up in fight or argument. What should I do or what could be probably done. Should I give him divorce and move on. Or should i wait for him to improve and return back to me an d how long.

My second question is recently I saw a dream of my Mother In Law death. I actually don't like her as she has always been supporting the wrong deeds of my husband. What does this dream signify. Would she actually die soon. I want to know this because her death would actually change the situation.

Please answer soon.

Jai Hanuman.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

If you have read the chapters of Lord Hanuman's Leelas, you know that you see your hidden desires in your dreams. So, what you saw was just your hidden desire. Nothing else. Do not confuse it with reality.

As far as your decision of divorce is concerned, you have to take this decision as per your Dharma. Dharma is nothing but a set of rules which you fix for yourself to live life. Your Dharma can be different than anyone else. So just recap your life so far and find out what your Dharma is. Take decision as per your Dharma.

Whatever decision you take, whether you divorce him or not, if you want to live a happy life, you need to forgive some people. If you do not forgive, same problems will strike again in different situation, in different form. Whether you want to live with him or divorce him, in both situations, forgive the people who you held responsible for current situation.

Blessings

1046. My dream after reading Hunting Honey with immortal Hanuman
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

I was very worried about y daughter s marriage. She was not agreeing for marriage. After reading this chapter, I dreamed her telling me that she will marry only after she is of age 32 in presence of Lord Hanuman
I explained to her to get married in the dream.

Now I feel much relieved, she has become more understanding now and I thank Lord Hanuman

Now we both are awaiting a good alliance for her marriage

1047. my dream of Lord Hanuman
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Hanumanji..I had a dream about you coming out of huge Hanuman Murthi near my home and running to the mandir that I go to.
I asked , "Baba..why are you running" and u replied "I have to have to go to my mandir"
And so i came running after you Baba.
Help me as i am a tormented soul.
I want liberation from this torment.People have done evil deeds towards me and i want relief from this agony..help me Hanumanji..tell me what I must do

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Forgive them who have tormented you. Make slate of your past clean so that Gods can write a better future for you.

Blessings

1048. my early life related to chapter 3
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai shree ram

I have performed charan puja, in march and may 2014.
Myentry you will find in your log book number-
5861304
07a486

Now when you have published chapter 3, I have received 1 mantra from you, in notifications.

Can you please let me know whether I am related or connected to this chapter?
or this mantra/prayer is given to all peoples?

Who was I in the story of chapter 3?

Please help me!

Bhavesh Bhatnagar

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,

Stories of the people who participated in Charan Pooja will start coming from Chapter 4. We shall post all the information to be given in the chapter itself. We shall not give any other information apart from the information covered in the logbook.

You have received a Mantra because I had requested for a Mantra from Lord Hanuman so that you can connect to Him. You shall receive more Mantras as you proceed further in your quest to meet Lord Hanuman. There are 36 stages to meet Lord Hanuman. You have crossed only first stage yet. You shall receive a Mantra at every stage you cross.

Blessings

1049. my elder brother hanuman ji
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

hanuman ji, i would like to thank you for you always stood by me. you are my isht dev prabhu and i keep remembering you prabhu. hanuman ji, i still remember the day when my father ( actually our father) got a heart attack. at that time i was not able to control the sequence of events and thus was really helpless. prabhu at that time i requested you to save his life. i made you my elder brother prabhu. and since then you have always been my elder brother. you saved our father's life. you did everything possible for our family. and my belief in you grew even stronger. whatever i share with you, you have always listened to it like an elder brother, always advised me and took me to the right direction prabhu. i want to thank you hanuman ji. i know we are brothers,.... and there is no kind of gratitude that would suffice or explain my respect for you bhagwanji.

prabhu in this mortal world i do not have anything ... all is yours prabhu. but offlate i have committed many sins or so do i think bhagwan. you know everything so i just request you to kindly lead us to the right path bhagwan ji. prabhu since childhood you have remained my isht dev and now i feel you like my brother always watcing me. keeping a constant vigil. hanuman ji... i can ask for no more bhagwan. i want me make my family happy. i want to see tears of happiness on the eyes of my family, same as when i cleared class 12th exams. and thus i want to do prayashchit for the eviil deed i have ever committed.

prabhu i wan to ask a question. why do we fear of even accepting that we are wrong. earlier i didn't but now i do fear in accepting the truth that i have committed sins. hanuman ji, my brother, please lead me towards light prabhu. i want to be like that kid again, pure soul, pure heart, no bad feeling for anyone. bhagwaanji, as far as i remember you have only come once into my dreams.... roaming in brahmaand with sanjeevani booti parvat in your hands..... after that i never was fortunate to meet you in my dreams. ek baar aur darshan dijiye hanuman ji. taras gaya hai man. please. bahut maila ho gya hai man is sansaar me prabhu. waps se wohi satvikta chahiye bhagwan. wohi khushi chahiye... shanti chahiye. sabko khush rakhna bhagwan. i miss you my elder brother. jai hanuman ji.

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
This experience was read out to Lord Hanuman this morning in Sakshat Hanuman Pooja. Hope He has given you the required message in the form of thoughts this morning.

Blessings

1050. my ernest desire
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Dear Hanuman ji,

Jai Shri Ram.

Firstly, I wish to express my gratitude for coming in my life. I love you Hanuman ji.

Secondly, I have a desire. I wish to do sudarshan kriya daily, follow Sri Sri Ravishankar (my Guru) and do 2 advance courses of Art of Living per year. Please grant my wish.

Jai Shri Ram.

Aapka bhakt,
Ankur

1051. My exp.
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

me hanuman ji ka bhakt hu unhone mera har jagah margdarshan kiya h lekin pichle kuch versho se mere andar unke prati galat vichar aa gye h shayad islie vo meri pukar nhi sun rhe h mughe satya ka gyan karaye

1052. My exp-Sever ear prob. Not settled in life Job and Marriage progeny etc
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Severe ear problem , Setting in life, Good Job, Marriage,Progeny and Mainly there should not be any ill willl against siblings within us and respect from society. i want to help form and NGO

Setu Speaks: 
Divine Soul,
This prayer has been accepted. Lord Hanuman shall do what best could be done to amend path of your soul.

Blessings

1053. my experiance
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Jai shree ram
Jai veer hanuman

When i started to read chapter and seen 1st line of mantra, i chant it and by heart i wish lord hanuman to give darshan in any form. As i think like this one lizard's face i seen but not with my real eye i saw it as like imagination.
And then after reading some chapters one day i saw a small monkey around home on tree.

I feel like lord hanuman gave darshan to me.
Thank u setu to link us with shree hanuman by their leelas.
As i read chapters i got disolve in that and feel like i was there when this all happen.
Feel like i can see all that as i read.
Thank u once again.
Regards, vaishali panchal.
Jai shree ram. Jai veer hanuman.

1054. My experience
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

After going through your website on friday (26-9-14) night and after reading the offer of donation, I was bit skeptical. I thought this was another money making website. I did not expereince anything for 2 days. On 29- 9-14, I had darshan of lord hanuman in my dream, standing tall in statute form. When I went near him, he opened his eyes and garlanded me with one his maala. Although, it was one of best experience, I do not know why I did not cherish that moment after waking up. I ve been reciting Hanuman chalisa for the past 3 monhs appx on daily basis. May lord hanuman remove all my mental blocks and allow me to experience the bliss and blessings.

1055. My experience
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

Sabse pehle main hanuman ji ko sachhe mann se charan sparsh karta hu. Hanuman ji ko main bahut maanta hu aur mujhe unme bahut vishwas hai. Mere ghar mein chaar sadasya hain. Mere mummy,papa aur ek choti behen . Main ghar mein iklauta ladka hun. Mjhe mere mummy papa bahut pyar karte hain. Meri mummy mjhe bahut zyada chahti hain aur mjhe kuch bhi pareshani na ho iska wo bahut dhyan rakhti hain. Main apne ghar walo ki saari ichhayein poori karna chahta hu. Par maine apni zindagi mein ye paya hai ki mjhe koi bhi safalta aasani se prapt ni hoti. Mera bhagya thoda peeche chalta hai. Main hamesha achha karne ki sochta bhi toh mjhe kuch achha parinaam nahi milta aur ulta sunne ko mil jata hai.
Chaar saal pehle mjhe ek ladki se lagaav ho gaya tha. Dheere dheere hum ek doosre se pyar karne lage aur aaj bhi karte hain. Hum ek doosre se shadi karna chahte hain par hamare ghar wale bilkul tayyar nahi hain. Hum itna pyar karte hain ki alag nahi hona chahte aur apne ghar walo ko bhi ni chhodna chahte. Main chaar saal se naukri kar raha hu. Ladki ki Financial condition thik nahi hai toh main apni job ke paise se hi uski har iccha poori karne ki koshish karta hu. Main usko achhi padhai karane ki koshish kar raha hu kyunki uske ghar wale usse padhane mein saksham nahi hain. Meri mummy uss ladki ko pasand nahi karti aur mjhe uske khilaf bolti hain jisse main apna vichar badal lu uske liye. Wo chahti hain ki meri ek achhe ghar mein shadi ho.Par wo ladki mjhe bahut pyar karti hai bilkul meri mummy ki tarah aur main bhi usse. Par ab meri naukri chootne wali hai. Mere paas 50 din ka waqt hai nayi naukri dhoondne k liye. Kripya mjhe kuch raasta dikhayein hanuman ji jisse main uss ladki se hi shadi kar paun wo bhi apne ghar walo ki marzi se aur meri naukri lag jaye bhawan.
Main aapse yeh bhi kehna chahta hu ki meri mummy ka swastha kuch thik ni rehta , unke dono ghutno mein bahut dard rehta hai.Kripya aap unki sehat mein sudhar karein aur unke ghutne thik karne ki sahayta pradaan karein.
Main apne papa ke achhe swastha k liye bhi aapse prarthna karta hu aur meri behen ki shadi kisi achhe ladke se jahan wo khush rahe ussi parivaar mein ho. Aur bhagwan meri shadi bhi ussi ladki se ho jisse main abhi bahut chahta hu aur main apne parivaar ko sabhi sukh pradaan karu apni zindagi mein aur unhe mere upar garv ho.
Ant mein main aapse mere dwara kiye gaye jaane anjaane paapo ki maafi chahta hu aur main apni zindagi mein achhe kaam karne chata hu.

Namakar hanuman ji
Jai shri Ram

Setu Speaks: 
This prayer was read out to the Lord yesterday,

1056. my experience
The Experience/Query posted below was posted by a devotee/Sadhaka.

jai shree ram
feeling very happy to share my experience...first time i understand how our life is going on & how we are protected by god if ones fully emerged in bhakti.

1057. 


